2013
2
TOWARDS THE
CIRCULAR ECONOMY
Opportunities for the
consumer goods sector
Pre-print version
Founding
Partners of the
Ellen MacArthur
Foundation
Foreword
A new term has emerged in recent years to describe our modern era—the
Anthropocene. It rightly implies that in this age humans became the dominant
force shaping our physical environment. It is evident that an economy that extracts
resources at increasing rates without consideration for the environment in which it
operates, without consideration for our natural planetary boundaries, cannot continue
indefinitely. In a world of soon to be 9 billion consumers who are actively buying
manufactured goods, this approach will hamper companies and undermine economies.
We need a new way of doing business.
The concept of a circular economy promises a way out. Here products do not quickly
become waste, but are reused to extract their maximum value before safely and
productively returning to the biosphere. Most importantly for business leaders, such an
economy can deliver growth. Innovative product designers and business leaders are
already venturing into this space.
I don’t believe business can be a mere bystander in the system that gives it life. This is
why decoupling economic growth from environmental impact and increasing positive
social outcomes are two priority objectives that lie at the heart of my vision for corporate
strategy. Businesses need to reinvent themselves, and the circular economy framework
provides very promising perspectives, as outlined in the present report.
I welcome this important contribution to the debate regarding the nature of ‘economic
things to come’. In 2012, the Ellen MacArthur Foundation report ‘Towards the circular
economy’ contributed significantly to our understanding of the opportunity for
durable goods. This year’s report again takes the business point of view to explore the
opportunity of the circular economy for fast-moving consumer goods. Building on all
the academic work of recent years and a large base of industry examples, it establishes
needed thought structures, identifies the major levers available, and calls out the
economic opportunity.
I envision a 21st century where innovation, values, and sheer drive will help harness the
power of regenerative processes, and this new report inspires our thinking on how to
create prosperity that is not at the expense of tomorrow’s opportunities.
Sincerely,
Paul Polman
Chief Executive Officer, Unilever
02 | TOWARDS THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY
In support of the circular economy
‘As a founding partner to the Ellen MacArthur Foundation, at Kingfisher and B&Q we
are already taking steps towards circularity. This is particularly relevant for us in timber,
where we are regenerating working woodlands and finding a second life for our waste
wood. This report identifies the massive opportunities of circularity for business.
Circularity supports our Net Positive approach to doing business—where we go beyond
minimising our negative impact and instead design ourselves to have a positive one.
We are very excited about the report’s findings and are looking forward to continuing
to work with the Foundation to understand how we unlock some of the commercial
opportunities it highlights.’
B&Q Ian Cheshire, Kingfisher Group, Chief Executive
‘We are working with key strategic suppliers to explore the commercial opportunities
of the circular economy, which we believe to be significant. We are also integrating the
principles of the circular economy into our product development process. As a founding
partner of the Ellen MacArthur Foundation, we are delighted to support this latest report,
which underlines the relevance and opportunities provided by the circular economy.’
BT Group Gavin Patterson, Chief Executive BT Retail
‘The Circular Economy offers a profound transformational opportunity, which represents
the interests of both the global community as well as the next generation. Transitioning
towards a regenerative model will stimulate economic activity in the areas of product
innovation, remanufacturing, and refurbishment, and in turn generate employment.
However, organisations must now question their ability to flex and adapt, to innovate
and develop new business models that exploit the way the market is moving. In today’s
increasingly complex, interdependent, and interconnected era, technology will play a
critical role in helping us understand and manage our vital resources in order to build a
genuinely sustainable economy.’
Cisco Chris Dedicoat, President, EMEA
‘The Foundation’s latest report builds on work we have done internally, highlighting
the opportunities anaerobic digestion provides for producing renewable gas from
waste. It gives new impetus to the work National Grid is doing around the circular
economy with regards to the regeneration of major infrastructure assets, our ambition
to use the circular economy as a core focus for innovation and sustainability across
our organisation, and to the joint ambition National Grid and the Foundation have of
inspiring a generation through our work in education.’
National Grid Steve Holliday, Chief Executive
‘The EU’s recent European Resource Efficiency Platform manifesto highlights the
importance of decoupling future economic progress from resource constraints.
Renault has been pursuing this objective for some time and is working closely with
the Ellen MacArthur Foundation, applying circular processes, and shaping the future
of mobility with electric vehicles—initiatives that will safeguard our leading role in the
automotive sector. The new report brings added focus to this work, and we are
delighted to have had a role in its elaboration.’
Renault Carlos Tavares, Chief Operating Officer for Renault
TOWARDS THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY | 03
Contents
1 Foreword
2 In support of the circular economy
4 Acknowledgements
5 Report synopsis
6 Executive summary
13 1. The limits of linear consumption
25 2. From linear to circular
37 3. How it works up close
81 4. An economic opportunity worth billions
93 5. The shift has begun
104 Appendix
109 List of experts consulted
110 List of figures
04 | TOWARDS THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY
Acknowledgements
The Ellen MacArthur Foundation was formed in 2010 to inspire
a generation to rethink, redesign and build a positive future.
The Foundation believes that the circular economy provides a
coherent framework for systems level redesign and as such offers
us an opportunity to harness innovation and creativity to enable a
positive, restorative economy.
The Foundation is supported by a group of ‘Founding Partners’—
B&Q, BT, Cisco, National Grid and Renault. Each of these
organisations has been instrumental in the initial formation of
the Foundation, the instigation of this report and continues to
support its activities in education, communications and working
as a business catalyst.
McKinsey & Company, a global management consulting firm,
provided the overall project management, developed the fact
base and delivered the analytics for the report.
Our special thanks go to the many leading academic, industry,
and government agency experts who provided invaluable
perspectives and expertise. A list of the contributors is included
at the end of this report.
TOWARDS THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY | 05
Report synopsis
In January 2012, the Ellen MacArthur Foundation launched a report on the
business and economic rationale for a circular economy. Given the complexity
of the topic, it offered an introduction to an alternative to the linear ‘take – make
– dispose’ model of consumption. The report showed that this linear model is
facing competition from a pattern of resource deployment that is circular by
design: it creates much more value from each unit of resource by recovering
and regenerating products and materials at the end of each service life. More
specifically, it demonstrated that designing and using durable goods, such as cars
and vans, washing machines, and mobile telephones, in accordance with circular
principles offers materials savings in Europe that could be worth USD 380 billion
in an initial transition period and up to USD 630 billion with full adoption.
This year, the Foundation has turned its focus to ‘fast-moving’ consumer goods,
products that typically have a lower unit cost, are bought more often, and have
a much shorter service life than durable goods. Fast-moving consumer goods
currently account for 35 per cent of material inputs into the economy, a significant
part of total consumer spending on tangible goods, and 75 per cent of municipal
waste. Importantly, the consumer goods sector absorbs more than 90 per cent of
our agricultural output—possibly our most embattled resource in the future.
If we are to move to a circular economy, it is therefore crucial to test how it
applies to the consumer goods sector.
Chapter 1
Examining the success and limits of linear consumption and the power
of the circular economy concept to break through the linear ‘dead end’.
Chapter 2
Discussing how the principles of the circular economy apply to consumer
goods—within both the biological and the technical spheres.
Chapter 3
Investigating how circular businesses can extract more value than the l
inear economy in three parts of the consumer goods industry: making use
of food waste and food processing by-products, reducing the material impact
of apparel without reducing consumer choice, and getting to grips with
beverage packaging.
Chapter 4
Describing the potential economic payoff of a rapid scale-up of circular
business models in the consumer goods sector.
Chapter 5
Proposing concrete steps for participants in the consumer goods industry
and for the public sector to bring the circular economy into the mainstream.
06 | TOWARDS THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY
Executive summary
The last 150 years of industrial evolution • Household food waste. An income1 stream
have been dominated by a one-way of USD 1.5 billion1 could be generated annually
or linear model of production and for municipalities and investors by collecting
consumption in which goods are household food waste in the U.K. separately
manufactured from raw materials, sold, and processing it in line with circular
used, and then discarded as waste. This principles to generate biogas and return
model has been exceptionally successful nutrients to agricultural soils. If all countries in
in providing affordable products to the EU matched Italy’s high rates of separate
consumers and material prosperity to collection of household food waste for biogas
billions. In developed economies, it has and compost production, the resulting income
largely displaced a traditional economy stream would give towns and cities a new
that featured more reuse and regeneration source of revenue.
but required more labour and produced
lower returns on investment. • Industrial beverage processing waste. An
additional profit of USD 1.90 – 2.00 per
While there is still room for the linear hectolitre of beer produced could be created
model to expand geographically and in Brazil on top of the margin for beer by
realise even higher efficiencies, there selling the biggest waste product, brewer’s
are signs that the coming decades spent grains, to farmers in the fish farming
will require productivity gains and (specifically tilapia) and livestock sectors, thus
quality improvements at a new order of ‘cascading’ it to another industry as a feed
magnitude. As the global middle class supplement. Cascaded uses are relevant for
more than doubles in size to nearly many food processing by-products.
5 billion by 2030, consumption and
material intensity will rise accordingly, • Textiles. A revenue of USD 1,975 per tonne
driving up input costs and price volatility of clothing collected could be generated in
at a time when access to new resource the U.K. if the garments were sold at current
reserves is becoming more challenging prices, with the gross profit of USD 1,295
and expensive. Perhaps most troubling comfortably outweighing the cost of USD 680
is that this sudden surge in demand may required to collect and sort each tonne. Like
have adverse effects on the environment Italy in household food waste collection, the
that further constrain supply. Symptoms of U.K. sets a standard worth emulating, with
these constraints are currently most visible an average clothing collection rate of 65% of
in the food and water supply. Declines in clothes discarded.
soil fertility are already estimated to cost
around USD 40 billion globally. • Packaging. A cost reduction of 20 per cent
from USD 29 to USD 24 per hectolitre of beer
Modern circular and regenerative forms consumed would be possible in the U.K. by
of consumption—so far limited to a few shifting from disposable to reusable glass beer
high-end categories—represent a promising bottles, which would lower the cost incurred
alternative and are gaining ground. for packaging, processing, and distribution.
Powerful examples of their economic While durability would require a 34% increase
viability at scale exist today, from anaerobic in the amount of glass used per bottle, this
digestion of household waste to apparel increase in material would be dwarfed by the
recovery. While these examples are still savings that accrue from being able to reuse
limited in geographical scope, we estimate such bottles up to 30 times, as currently
the full potential of the circular economy achieved in Germany.
to be as much as USD 700 billion in global
consumer goods materials savings Over time, the market is likely to
alone. Our product- and country-level systematically reward companies with an
analyses covered examples in product edge in circular business practices and hence
categories that represent 80 per cent of dramatically lower resource requirements.
the total consumer goods market by value, With new technologies in hand, they can
namely food, beverages, textiles, and win by scaling up the concept of the circular
1 Includes revenue from feed- packaging. Highlights of opportunities for economy. There will also be rewards in rapidly
in-tariff in the U.K. and avoided
landfill fees profitable businesses include the following: urbanising countries where waste streams of
TOWARDS THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY | 07
nutrients, heat, partially treated wastewater • Manufacturers’ margins are being
or CO can be converted back into high-value compressed by slow growth in demand,
2
biological products or energy using much increasing costs, and higher price volatility
shorter and more resilient supply chains. The for resources.
time to invest in building a circular economy
is now. • Agricultural productivity is growing more
slowly than ever before, and soil fertility
1. The success—and limits—of linear and even the nutritional value of foods are
consumption declining.
Between 1900 and 2000, global GDP grew • The risks to food security and safety
twenty times and created hitherto unknown associated with long, ‘hyper-optimised’
levels of material prosperity. The availability global supply chains appear to be increasing.
of consumer goods of increasing quality and
reliability at ever-lower cost was supported For these reasons, alternative models for
by new production technologies, globalised production, distribution, and consumption
supply chains, fewer labour inputs, and based on reusing resources and
what we call a ‘linear’ industrial economy. regenerating natural capital have caught the
Within this linear model, resources are attention of businesses around the world.
extracted from the earth for production and ‘Circular’ sources of value appear more
consumption on a one-way track with no transformational and less incremental than
plans for reuse or active regeneration of the further efficiency improvements.
natural systems from which they have been
taken. In developed economies, the linear 2. Rediscovering a circular model
economy has largely displaced the traditional
‘lower productivity’ circular economy. For durables, the benefits of reuse have been
widely demonstrated. For consumer goods—
The linear economy is material and energy such as food and beverages or apparel and
intensive; it relies on economies of scale, and their packaging—which are short-lived and
typically builds on complex and international often transformed during use, the economic
supply chains. All these supply chains have benefits of a circular design are more
a common goal—the consumer. The goods complex in origin and harder to assess.
an OECD citizen buys for consumption
annually—800 kg of food and beverages, We estimate the total material value of
120 kg of packaging, and 20 kg of new fast-moving consumer goods at USD 3.2
clothing and shoes—are, for the most part, trillion. Currently, we recover an estimated
not returned for any further economic use. 20 per cent of this material, largely through
In the current ‘take-make-dispose’ system, decomposition (cascading of waste and
around 80 per cent of these materials will by-products through adjacent supply chains,
end up in incinerators, landfill or wastewater. returning nutrients to the soil, and recycling)
They come to a dead end. and partly through reuse. In the future, we
believe that a much higher share of consumer
There is still room to expand the linear goods materials could potentially be
economy model geographically to the recovered though reuse and decomposition.
developing world, where labour and capital Even in the near term, without the dramatic
are not yet organised around agricultural application of bio-based products and the
or processing value chains optimised for full redesign of supply chains, the value that
efficiency. At the same time, there are can be recovered could be increased to
growing signs that the power of the linear 50 per cent.
model is reaching a limit:
Recovering part of the USD 2.6 trillion
• In modern manufacturing processes, of material value lost today is a huge
opportunities to increase efficiency still opportunity for fast-moving consumer goods
exist, but the gains are largely incremental companies. However, they face significant
and insufficient to generate real competitive hurdles as they try to break out of the linear
advantage or differentiation. model. We need to build efficient collection
08 | TOWARDS THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY
Executive summary
Continued
systems to capture the materials value of Clothing
goods that are consumed far from their There are profitable circular opportunities to
point of origin, design better combinations reuse end-of-life clothing, which, in addition
of goods and packaging, and dramatically to being worn again, can also be cascaded
increase the attention management gives to down to other industries to make insulation
recovering value in the post-use stages of or stuffing, or simply recycled into yarn to
the supply chain. Enough thriving examples make fabrics that save virgin fibres. If sold at
of circular business models already exist current prices in the U.K., a tonne of collected
today to give us confidence that these and sorted clothing can generate a revenue
challenges can be met. of USD 1,975, or a gross profit of USD 1,295
after subtracting the USD 680 required to
3. Commercial opportunities today collect and sort each tonne. We also see an
opportunity in expanding the ‘clothing-for-
In our product-level analysis, we have hire’ segment to everyday clothes, as another
studied specific examples in product offshoot of the asset-light trend.
categories that represent 80 per cent of
the total consumer goods market by value: Packaging
food, beverages, textiles, and packaging. Recovery for reuse, keeping packaging in
Circular opportunities exist all along circulation longer, will deliver dramatically
the value chain: in manufacturing (food greater materials savings and profit than the
and beverages), in the distribution and traditional linear one-way system, especially
consumption stages (textiles, packaging), if collection rates are high. Our modelling
and in post-use processing (food waste). of beer containers shows that shifting to
Generally, in developing countries, reusable glass bottles would lower the cost
more circular opportunities are lost at of packaging, processing, and distribution by
the manufacturing stage. In developed approximately 20 per cent per hectolitre of
countries, losses are more heavily beer consumed.
concentrated at the consumer level.
Recovery for decomposition is another option.
Food and beverages End-of-life materials can be cycled back
There are profitable ways to deal with through one of two forms: either recycling the
the mixed food waste discarded by materials or returning nutrients to the soil via
households and the hospitality sector. biodegradable packaging.
In the U.K., processing this waste in line
with circular principles could generate an Recycling—This is a solution when it is not
income stream of USD 1.5 billion annually— feasible to install reuse infrastructure, but
providing a major economic opportunity significant materials savings are immediately
for both municipalities and investors while available by collecting and recycling used
generating biogas and returning nutrients packaging. In OECD countries, prices of raw
to agricultural soils. materials already make it profitable today
for collection and recycling companies to
There is further potential for circularity in increase the volume and range of the different
industrial food processing, where waste is fractions recycled. Our case shows a profit of
mostly created as a by-product—such as nearly USD 200 per tonne of plastic collected
brewer’s spent grains in beer-making or for recycling. In parallel, more thoughtful
orange peel in juice production. With beer— product design and material choices should
the world’s third most-popular beverage also significantly improve recovery and
after water and tea, and representative of regeneration solutions.
foods and beverages that generate valuable
processing by-products—keeping brewer’s Biodegradable packaging—This is the solution
spent grains out of landfill. Instead, selling of choice when single-use packaging can
them as a feed supplement in accordance facilitate the return of bio-based materials
with circular principles, can create a profit (e.g., food) back to the soil, or when no other
of USD 1.90 per hectolitre of beer produced. viable end-of-life option exists. Most available
biodegradable materials are currently more
expensive than traditional packaging, but
TOWARDS THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY | 09
innovative solutions are being developed unique landscapes. Higher land productivity,
in specific applications and could allow less waste in the food value chain, and the
the profitable evolution of biodegradable return of nutrients to the soil will enhance the
packaging. value of land and soil as assets. The circular
economy, by moving much more biological
Because they extract value from what are material through the anaerobic digestion or
otherwise wasted resources, these and other composting process and back into the soil,
examples of the modern circular economy will reduce the need for replenishment with
are inherently more productive than linear additional nutrients. This is the principle of
business models. Technologies and regulatory regeneration at work.
solutions already exist to support businesses
and investors in seizing such opportunities • Job creation potential. A circular economy
and changing consumption habits towards might bring greater local employment,
longer use and reuse. As Steve Sharp, especially in entry-level and semi-skilled jobs,
executive director of marketing at Marks & which would address a serious issue facing
Spencer, says: ‘Not many years ago people the economies of developed countries.
would have been incredulous at the idea of This total prize is just the beginning of a
routinely recycling bottles and plastic, yet much bigger set of transformative value-
this is now commonplace behaviour. We want creation plays as the world scales up the
to try to achieve that same shift of behaviour new circular technologies and business
with our Shwopping campaign and make models. We are likely to see a selective
recycling clothes a habit’. M&S CEO Mark ‘grafting’ of new circular business models and
Bolland adds: ‘We’re leading a change in the technologies during this period of transition.
way we all shop for clothing, forever.2’ Initially, these grafts may appear to be
modest in their impact and play into niche
4. Accounting for the business and markets (e.g., growing greenhouse tomatoes,
economic benefits hiring out high-end fashion items). But over
the next 15 years these new business models
The full value of these circular opportunities will likely gain an increasing competitive
for fast-moving consumer goods could be advantage, because they inherently create
as much as USD 700 billion per annum in much more value from each unit of resource.
material savings or a recurring 1.1 per cent In addition, they are likely to meet other
of 2010 GDP, all net of materials used in the market requirements, associated with
reverse-cycle processes (see Figure 20 in more secure supply, more convenience for
Chapter 4). Those materials savings would consumers, and lower environmental costs.
represent about 20 per cent of the materials
input costs incurred by the consumer goods In a world of 9 or 10 billion consumers with
industry. In addition, we expect the following fierce competition for resources, market
benefits: forces are likely to favour those models that
best combine specialised knowledge and
• Innovation. The aspiration to replace one- cross-sector collaboration to create the most
way products with goods that are ‘circular by value per unit of resource over those models
design’ and create reverse logistics networks that simply rely on ever more resource
and other systems to support the circular extraction and throughput. Natural selection
economy is a powerful spur to new ideas. will likely favour the agile hybrids—able to
The benefits of a more innovative economy quickly combine circularity with scale—that
include higher rates of technological are best adapted to a planet transformed
development; improved materials, labour, by humanity.
and energy efficiency, and more profit
opportunities for companies. By 2030, the prize could be much more
than USD 700 billion—and we expect to see
• Land productivity and soil health. Land circular business models accounting for a
degradation costs an estimated USD 40 large part of the global bio-value chains.
billion annually worldwide, without taking In that not-so-distant world, investors,
2 http://platform-online. into account the hidden costs of increased managers, and regulators will be talking
net/2012/10/ms-unveil-
first-shwopping-garment/ fertiliser use, loss of biodiversity, and loss of about how companies get going and start
10 | TOWARDS THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY
Executive summary
Continued
learning how to hybridise their business redefine the way value chains work in
models—for markets that will be worth well distribution, waste recovery, and consumer
over USD 25 trillion. choice without increasing material impact
5. The shift has begun—mainstreaming the • New business models that improve control
circular economy over scarce resources and ‘assetise’ them
for reuse in value-maximising transfers
Why now? Our economy currently seems as feedstock to subsequent industrial or
locked into a system in which everything agricultural processes
from production economics and contracts
to regulation and the way people behave • A new model of collaborative consumerism
favours the linear model of production —in which consumers embrace services that
and consumption. However, this lock-in is enable them to access products on demand
weakening under the pressure of several rather than owning them—and collaborative
powerful disruptive trends. First, resource consumption models that provide more
scarcity and tighter environmental standards interaction between consumers, retailers,
are here to stay. Their effect will be to reward and manufacturers (e.g., performance-for-
circular businesses that extract value from pay models, rent or leasing schemes, return
wasted resources over take-make-dispose and reuse)
businesses. Second, information technology
is now so advanced that it can trace materials • New packaging technologies and systems
anywhere in the supply chain, identify that extend food life and minimise packaging
products and material fractions, and track waste.
product status during use. Third, we are in
the midst of a pervasive shift in consumer Companies are successfully building more
behaviour: a new generation of consumers circular business models in and for the
seems prepared to prefer access over consumer goods industry, and we see new
ownership. roles and vantage points emerging:
Capturing the new opportunities will • Volume aggregators: Markets for residues
require leading corporations and municipal and by-products are currently severely under
authorities to develop a new set of developed, creating arbitrage opportunities
‘circular’ muscles and capabilities along for volume aggregators who stand at the
their traditional supply chains. These new forefront of organising these markets. Asos,
capabilities will be reinforced by a set of an aspiring online ‘fashion destination’ that
fundamental developments in resource offers more than 850 brands of new clothes,
markets, technology and information has extended its scope to the reverse
systems, and consumer preferences: cycle by creating a parallel platform where
consumers can resell end-of-life clothing, and
• Urbanisation that centralises flows of small firms can market ‘vintage’ garments
consumer goods and waste streams and accessories as well as new ones. More
specialised companies offer sales platforms
• A set of new technologies (e.g., in the business-to-business environment, too,
anaerobic digestion) that enables dramatic such as the Waste Producer Exchange (WPE)
improvements in the way value is extracted in the U.K., which supports users in selling
from today’s biological waste streams as well waste products and materials.
as opportunities to combine multiple waste
streams (CO 2 , heat, wastewater, nutrients) • Technology pioneers: New technologies,
into advanced agro-manufacturing systems (such as PHA bioplastics production from
industrial wastewater) offer technology
• New IT capabilities that support more leaders a vast array of opportunities. A recent
precise management and tracking and rush of private equity capital into recycling
tracing of biological flows in the system and circular technology may signal the first
(e.g., RFID chips that provide detailed influx of semi-permanent settlers on this
information about product spoilage rates) frontier. Veolia has pioneered the production
• Emergence of online retail channels that of bioplastics from sludge. Wastewater
TOWARDS THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY | 11
treatment systems today often use bacteria Chicago, a vertical aquaponic farm growing
that eat sludge and neutralise it into carbon. tilapia and vegetables that also serves as
Using proprietary technology, Veolia an incubator for craft food businesses
achieved a breakthrough in converting this and operates an anaerobic digester and a
‘wastewater carbon’ into biomass rich in PHA, combined heat and power plant. Discarded
which has mechanical properties equivalent materials from one business are used as a
to polypropylene and is thus valuable in resource for another in an explicitly
making consumer plastics and chemicals. circular system.
Veolia produced the first biopolymers
from municipal waste in 2011, and is now • Product-to-service converters: In the textile
refining the process to meet end-customer industry, players like Patagonia—which
specifications at full-scale wastewater pioneered the ‘Common Threads Initiative’
treatment sites in Belgium and Sweden. to reduce the environmental footprint of its
garments—seek longer and more intimate
• Micro-marketeers: In the food and beverage customer relationships beyond the point
industry, large retailers such as Woolworths in of sale. Value-added offerings like repair,
Australia, WholeFoods in the U.S., and Migros amendment, return and leasing offer much
in Switzerland, as well as global food giants greater customer interaction at multiple
such as Unilever, Nestlé, Danone, and Kraft touchpoints. Some players are beginning
Foods, are preparing for markets with more to redefine themselves as fashion or style
local sourcing, distributed manufacturing, partners with superior customer insights and
increased customer interaction, diversified value opportunities along the life cycle and
customer demand, multi-channel purchasing across different categories.
(including home-delivery), and ultimately
more intimate customer relationships. At We do not know how the shift will come
the same time, low-cost same-day delivery about. It would come slowly or in a sudden
services allow local brick-and-mortar sweep, as a reaction to external shocks. It
companies to compete with national brands may be the outcome of stirring public stimuli
online, further propelled by the emergence (‘man on the moon’) or of a killer application,
of online ‘hyper-local’ advertising platforms as a silent manufacturing revolution. It
that allow people to find such businesses could even emerge as grassroots consumer
in their neighbourhood. Serving these activism, or as voluntary, inclusive industry
micro-markets at scale and developing commitment. History has seen all of these
an integrated ‘systems’ offering that links patterns lead to breakthroughs: we do not
products, ordering, delivery, and aftersales know which of them will tip consumption into
service could be the name of the game, and a more regenerative mode. We do expect,
could even feature ‘assisted’ self-production however, that the shift will play out between
by the consumer. In such a strategy, the pioneering industry leaders, discriminating,
circular economy could become a major well-informed consumers, and forward-
source of differentiation—if not an obligation. looking public constituencies.
Micro-marketeers could proactively offer
B2B service contracts, develop blueprints for
‘zero-waste’ plants, or establish food waste
reuse centres.
• Urban-loop providers: Urbanisation in
emerging economies will create urban and
peri-urban systems where waste streams of
nutrients, heat, partially treated wastewater,
or CO are converted back into high-value
2
biological products using much shorter and
more resilient supply chains than today.
Urban-loop economies offer a playing field
for businesses with sophisticated know-how
in design, engineering, and infrastructure
operations. An example of this is The Plant,
12 | TOWARDS THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY
Executive summary
Continued
To support collaboration and knowledge
transfer between companies engaged in
implementing circular economy solutions,
the Ellen MacArthur Foundation has created
the Circular Economy 100, an invitational
global platform for 100 pioneering businesses
to accelerate the transition to a circular
economy over a 1,000-day innovation period.
The CE100 supports its members via a
number of enabling initiatives, including:
an online library of best practices, insights
and learnings, acceleration workshops, an
annual summit to showcase solutions and
leading thinking, network and partnership
opportunities with other CE100 members
and universities, and executive education.
1
The limits of linear consumption
Examining the success and limits of
linear consumption and the power of
the circular economy concept to break
through the linear ‘dead end’.
14 | TOWARDS THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY
1. The limits of linear consumption
With around USD 12 trillion in annual sales3, As a result, consumer demand from emerging
the fast-moving consumer goods industry economies has the potential to exponentially
is a force to reckon with in the global increase the use of materials, bring about
economy. While expenditure levels for dramatic rises in input costs, and result in
such goods are vastly different across the hard-to- manage commodity volatility. In the
globe, they represent a significant share of face of unprecedented resource demands,
household budgets in both developed and radical resource efficiency will no longer suffice.
emerging markets4. The influence of the Efficiency can lower the amount of energy and
sector stretches beyond its financial impact: materials used per dollar of GDP, but fails to
it takes in approximately USD 3 trillion decouple the consumption and degradation of
worth of materials5 and is responsible for resources from economic growth. This calls for
the vast majority (75%) of municipal solid system level redesign. The circular economy
waste6. It also drives a large share of losses provides a model which, if implemented
in virgin forests due to the conversion of correctly, would go much further than
land for agricultural use, one of the key minimising waste. Effective cycling of the many
supply sectors for the packaged goods
materials our society discards would enable us
industry7. If we are to move to a circular
to rebuild our natural assets—soil and soil quality
economy, it is therefore critical for us to
in particular—so crucial to continued prosperity.
address consumer products head on.
We’re sitting on a consumption Circular patterns vary over
time and geography
time bomb
The material impact of the consumer goods Historically, consumer industries operated
industry is set to rise exponentially, driven by using more circular principles. A large
a growing middle class in emerging markets: proportion of food was grown locally,
three billion additional consumers in the next bought loose and prepared in the home,
20 years, with a higher propensity to buy without further processing. Packaging
manufactured goods (Figure 1). This will be was generally owned by the consumer,
driven by the following factors: and almost entirely reused, while apparel
would be repeatedly repaired and
• Far more consumers. The OECD estimates reused, and often passed down through
that the global middle class will increase generations. A larger share of edible food
from 1.9 billion in 2009 to 4.9 billion in 2030 would be consumed (e.g., vegetables with
with almost 90% of the growth coming from slight blemishes); unavoidable food waste
the Asia-Pacific region8. would be cycled for use in animal feed.
Human and animal waste was seen as a
• Much higher consumption. The advent of valuable resource and cycled, typically
disposable incomes to many more households back onto the land and sometimes their
means that a large number of consumers will chemical value would be extracted, such
move from ‘doing without’ to enjoying the as in tanning and dyeing processes.
benefits of their improved financial position
3 Euromonitor 2012 by buying more items. Consumption in In short, the idea that ‘waste equals
4 Approximately 23%-28% emerging markets is expected to rise to food’ was very much part of all aspects
in USA (U.S. Bureau of Labor
of daily life. While Western countries
Statistics) and 52%-64% in USD 30 trillion per year by 2025, up from
China (China national statistics have largely abandoned such systems
USD 12 trillion in 2010. The rise in disposable
yearbook)
and habits, much of consumption in the
income is in part dependent on the health
5 Euromonitor 2012, expert developing world still functions using a
interviews of the global economy, and prospects for
more circular model, with far more active
sustained growth in the linear economy may
6 US EPA 2010 cycling of discarded materials, especially
be limited by resource constraints.
7 TEEB: Mainstreaming food waste, much higher penetration of
the economics of
nature—a synthesis of the • Higher material intensity. In addition, these reusable packaging, a high proportion
approach, conclusions and new consumers will switch from loose, of food bought loose (e.g., vegetables
recommendations of TEEB;
2010 unbranded products to manufactured goods. from markets) or in bulk, and much more
livestock/crop integration in small-scale/
8 Perspectives on Global The material impact of such packaged goods
Development 2012, Social is much greater, both because of processing subsistence farming.
cohesion in a shifting world.
OECD losses and packaging.
TOWARDS THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY | 15
FIGURE 1 A potential consumption time bomb1
2010-2025
1.1bn more people Dramatic shift to packaged products
RICE FLOUR
1.8bn more middle-class consumers Much greater waste at end of life
SUPER
$ $$$
Food: Caloric consumption Food spending Packaging End-of-life materials
+24% +57% +47% +41%
1 Estimate based on the comparison of low-income countries or population segment (e.g., India) and middle/high income countries and segments (e.g., US)
SOURCE: World Bank. Ellen MacArthur Foundation circular economy team
16 | TOWARDS THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY
1. The limits of linear consumption
Continued
The consumer goods industry— time, or just a few times. This is obviously
locked in a linear paradigm? very different from the relatively expensive
durable consumer and business-to-business
A key insight in circular economy thinking is products, where use is measured in multiple
the division between biological and technical years, and where the case for reconditioning,
materials. Biological ‘nutrients’ (cf. Braungart repair or recovery of the value inherent in the
& McDonough) are designed to re-enter products is more obvious.
the biosphere safely for decomposition to
become valuable feedstock for a new cycle— • Packaging component. Consumer goods
i.e., ‘waste equals food’. These products generally contain two components: the
are designed by intention to literally be product itself, and its packaging (part of
consumed or metabolised by the economy which is usually discarded immediately the
and regenerate new resource value. Technical product is used). The impact of producing
‘nutrients’ are materials that either do not and discarding materials is significant for
degrade easily or cause contamination both product and packaging, so we need to
within the biological nutrient flow. These explore solutions for each.
durable materials and products are designed
by intention to retain embedded quality • Multi-staged value chain. Consumer
and energy. products are created, sourced and used
via a global value chain, starting with raw
At first glance, it might appear harder to agricultural and chemical inputs. These
adopt circular principles in the consumer go through a manufacturing process, a
industry than in the durable goods sector, complex distribution and retail chain, use
given some of its intrinsic characteristics. by consumers, and waste collection, before
Consumption in reality mostly means typically ending their lives in landfill, sewage
‘destruction’ and the loss of potentially or incineration. Importantly, manufacturers,
valuable products, components, and retailers and waste handlers are usually
materials—and their associated embedded separate parties (unlike in some durable
energy and restorative value. categories such as automotive), and
frequently have misaligned or competing
In addition to this, adoption of circular interests. This means that to create
approaches in the consumer goods industry successful new circular models, we need
is complicated by four factors: to assess their impact on profitability for
manufacturing, retail/distribution, and waste
• Large volumes in broad distribution. handling.
Fast-moving consumer goods (or ‘consumer
packaged goods’) are characterised by high Waste as part of the linear system results
throughput volumes, are bought frequently, in economic losses on all fronts
represent a large physical volume (in
developed countries, for example, consumers Declining real resource prices (especially
buy almost a tonne worth of consumer fossil fuels) have been the engine of
goods per year, including packaging),9 and economic growth in advanced economies
come at relatively low prices (i.e., each throughout most of the last century10. The
purchase is individually quite cheap). Large low level of resource prices relative to labour
quantities of packaged goods typically end costs has also created the current wasteful
9 EPA, Euromonitor 2012, US
Economic Research Service, up widely dispersed, rendering them more system of resource use. Reusing biological
IRI, Veronis Suhler Stevenson, difficult to recover economically, unlike and technical materials has not been a
Winery and Distillery Waste
Management, Bloomberg, SRI, mobile phones or cars. major economic priority given the ease of
RISI, Let’s Recycle, Knowaste, Eye obtaining new input materials and cheaply
See Mission, ‘Waste: Uncovering
the Global Food Scandal’, Press • Product lifespan. Most fast-moving disposing of refuse. As Jamie Lawrence,
search
consumer goods have a short to very short Senior Sustainability Advisor Forest and
10 The low and steadily falling lifespan. Some product categories are Timber at Kingfisher, points out, access to
level of resource prices, in real
terms, over the 20th century— literally consumed, such as food, beverages, virgin wood and fibre has been so easy in
and its positive implications for cosmetics, and paper tissues, meaning they the past that reusing fibre was never on
economic growth—are discussed
in depth in the McKinsey Global are no longer fit for use after first use. Other the industry’s agenda. In fact, the biggest
Institute’s November 2011 report
Resource Revolution, cited above categories are used for only a relatively short economic efficiency gains have resulted from
TOWARDS THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY | 17
FIGURE 2 Path to a circular economy—design and recover consumer goods for reuse or decomposition
% of FMCG products (by value)
Recovered for Not recovered2 Recovered
decomposition1 for reuse3
Today 18% 80% 2%
Near-term4
Future5
1 Decomposition to allow materials to be recycled or biodegraded, depending on product/packaging material characteristics and end of life collection
2 Cannot be reused, recycled or biodegraded due to poor design and/or lack of end-of-life collection options
3 Reuse can include direct reuse for the same or different value streams or industries
3 Economic feasibility demonstrated in this report
4 Economic feasibility not yet proven
SOURCE: Euromonitor 2011, Expert interviews, Ellen MacArthur Foundation circular economy team
using more resources, especially energy, to • Value lost in agriculture. A large share of
reduce labour costs. Such a system had few inputs for the consumer goods production
difficulties delivering lower costs as long as system originates in the agricultural supply
the fiscal regimes and accounting rules that chain. Losses of such material occur at
govern it allowed many indirect costs to several different steps in the production of
remain unaccounted for—the externalities. crops and in animal husbandry : losses due
A systems analysis, however, reveals losses to mechanical damage or spillage during
throughout the value chain. harvest, animal death during breeding,
or discards during fishing (globally this
The picture is similar in the consumer goods amounts to 8% of catches).11 Crops sorted out
sector. Globally, only 20% of FMCG products post-harvest due to product specifications
are currently recovered at the end of their are another source of loss (especially true
useful life, largely through ‘decomposition’ in of fruits and vegetables in industrialised
its broadest sense—the cascading of waste countries), as well as spillage or degradation
and by-products through adjacent supply during transport and storage, exacerbated by
chains, recycling of used products and ever-longer global supply chains.
packaging, and the return of nutrients to the
soil (Figure 2). Very little reuse occurs today, • Value lost in processing. In the production
partly, of course, because of the one-off of consumer goods, significant volumes
nature of consumption, but also because of of materials are commonly lost during
the preponderance of single-use packaging. processing. The Food and Agriculture
The materials left unrecovered—landfilled, Organisation estimates that 8-12% of total
incinerated, or lost in waste water—can be food inputs are lost in the processing stage.12
11 FAO: Global Food Losses observed all along the value chain, from Such losses can either be due to the specific
and Food Waste—Extent,
production to post-consumption. process (e.g., beer brewing inherently
causes and prevention, 2011
12 FAO: Global Food Losses
and Food Waste—Extent,
causes and prevention, 2011
18 | TOWARDS THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY
1. The limits of linear consumption
Continued
generates waste volumes, with 15-20% of theoretical end of life at all because its use
input materials—including water—never does not match the intent of its design.
making it into the final product13), accidental
(process glitches and interruptions, for Throughout the value chain, it is worth
instance), or due to narrowly defined distinguishing between value losses that are
product specifications—where both incoming unavoidable (bones left on the plate after
materials and processed output may be consumption of meat or textile trimmings
unduly discarded. after cutting patterns have been optimised
for yield), losses that are avoidable (dairy
• Value lost in distribution. In low-income losses due to inadequate cold chains or
countries, fruit, vegetables, fish/seafood purchased but unconsumed foodstuffs), and
and dairy products suffer particularly heavy those that are likely avoidable. Examples of
losses during post-harvest handing and the latter include apparel discarded due to
distribution—often in the region of 10 - 20% natural variations in the fibre or vegetable
of the input material.14 Causes include food trimmings rejected during processing (or
sales not meeting the sell-by date, being even in the kitchen) that are the result of
stored under the wrong conditions, or failing overly strict specifications. While food loss
to meet tight retailer standards. statistics typically only take into account the
share of crops and products intended for
• Value lost in use. In medium- and high- human consumption, it is important that all
income countries, a large proportion of losses and waste are investigated for further
products are not put to the use for which useful applications.
they were purchased. This applies especially
to food (the average U.S. family throws Everyone loses out in the linear approach
away half the food they buy, worth USD
164 billion)15 as well as to other consumer The material losses that have been described
product categories. Cosmetics for example along the value chain impact the economy
are frequently left unfinished. Many clothes in very direct ways, as they are associated
are only worn a few times before being with real costs for both producers and
disposed of or forgotten. U.K. households for consumers. These financial effects will be
instance have around USD 50 billion worth of sustained and possibly exacerbated farther
clothing in their wardrobes that has not been out as our natural capital becomes eroded
worn for a year.16 and declines in performance over time.
Moreover, the entire economic system is
• Value lost at end of life. A large proportion starting to experience a whole new level of
of consumer goods are wasted at the end risk exposure. Nowhere does this play out
of their first use. Packaging, food waste more explicitly than in our agricultural supply
and discarded textiles often end up in chain, as the next section will explain.
landfill where they have zero value; in fact,
they attract additional costs for collection Cost burdens
and disposal. Current recycling rates are Recent spikes in input costs are an indication
significant for only a handful of waste that the industry may be reaching a limit
types—mostly those that occur in large, where demand starts to accelerate ahead of
fairly homogeneous volumes. Packaging is an ever more constrained supply. Most inputs
perhaps the most widely recognised source to consumer goods, both agricultural and
13 Expert interviews, Ellen of waste. technical in nature, have seen high prices and
MacArthur circular economy unprecedented levels of volatility in recent
team. Every litre of beer
produced generates between • Value lost in design. Durability of design years, creating pressure on companies’
150 and 200 grams of brew- and durability required in use are often not profitability. Businesses are feeling squeezed
ers grains
well matched. Packaging, if used only once, between rising and less predictable prices
14 FAO: Global Food Losses
and Food Waste—Extent, should be designed for ‘decomposition’ and in resource markets on the one hand
causes and prevention, 2011 subsequent regeneration, whether through and stagnating demand in many mature
15 FAO: Global Food Losses the biological sphere, or—if it can be isolated consumer markets on the other.
and Food Waste—Extent, and processed easily and at extremely high
causes and prevention, 2011
levels of recovery— the technical sphere. Rising commodity prices. Commodity
16 WRAP, Valuing our
clothes, 2012 Clothing today frequently does not reach its prices fell by roughly half in real terms over
TOWARDS THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY | 19
the course of the 20th century. However, for instance, PepsiCo announced that they
the start of the new millennium marked a expected input costs for the fiscal year to rise
turning point when the real prices of natural by USD 1.4 – 1.6 billion, or between 8 and 9.5%
resources began to surge upwards. In a trend of total input costs, due to commodity price
separate from the financial and economic increases.20 PepsiCo also said they did not
crises, commodity prices in aggregate plan to fully offset these losses through price-
increased by nearly 150% from 2002 to hikes—highlighting another, parallel trend
2010, erasing the last century’s worth of in which firms face a profit squeeze due to
real price declines. Price increases have hit softer demand.21 Similarly, H&M, the clothing
not only metals, such as gold and copper, company, suffered from a significant drop in
but also direct inputs for consumer goods. profits in 2011 due to rising cotton prices that
In 2011, for example, cotton prices in the they did not pass on to customers through
US surged almost 40% in two months and higher prices or lower quality.22
remain at levels double the pre-2007 price of
cotton.17 Similarly, polyester prices increased Loss of energy. Another financial and
from USD 1.3/kg in 2010 to USD 2.1/kg in economic impact of note in the linear
2011. Meanwhile, average clothing prices economy is the associated energy lost
decreased from an average of USD 15.2 per whenever materials are discarded somewhere
garment in 2006 to USD 14.9 per garment in in the value chain. The consumption of energy
2011.18 The combination of higher input costs for biological inputs is significant. In the U.S.,
and lower retail prices is putting pressure on for example, food production and preparation
producers’ margins and forcing them to seek represents 17% of all energy demand.23 The
ways to control rising input costs. incineration of discarded process waste or
end-of-life products recoups only a small
Increasing price volatility. At the same share of this energy.
time, the last decade has seen higher
price volatility for metals, food and non- Erosion of natural capital
food agricultural output than in any single
decade in the 20th century.19 High prices are Natural capital and ecosystem services
17 Indexmundi, average
spot price for a pound of one issue; their volatility is another. Higher
upland cotton
volatility of resource prices can dampen Natural capital is the potential value
18 Price for 1.4/1.5 denier economic growth by increasing uncertainty, held in natural resources, which include
staple fibre
and this may discourage businesses from mineral assets but also extend to
19 Annual price volatility investing. Volatility-induced uncertainty biodiversity and ecosystems on which
calculated as the standard
deviation of McKinsey also increases the costs of hedging against human activity and welfare depend.
c d o iv m id m ed o d b i y ty t h su e b a i v n e d r i a c g es e of resource-related risks; in his book ‘Antifragile’ As defined by Robert Costanza at the
the subindex over the time Nassim Taleb states that the value at risk University of Maryland in a seminal article
frame; Source: McKinsey
Global Institute: Resource of black swan events like Hurricane Sandy published in Nature: ‘Ecosystem services
revolution: Meeting the cannot possibly be estimated—effectively consist of flows of materials, energy, and
world’s energy, materials,
food, and water needs, rendering such future events uninsurable. information from natural capital stocks
November 2011 which combine with manufactured
Both prices and volatility are likely to remain
20 ‘Pepsi faces steep input high for a number of reasons. One is that and human capital services to produce
price inflation’, Financial human welfare.’24 These services include
Times, 10 February 2011 populations are growing and urbanising,
for example carbon sequestration, crop
boosting demand. Resource extraction is also
21 ‘Tata Steel Q2 net profit
pollination, or nutrient dispersal
plunges 89%’, Economic moving to harder-to-reach, less fertile and/or
Times, 11 November 2011 and cycling.
more politically unstable locations. Another
22 ‘H&M hit by soaring factor is that the depletion of natural capital
cotton prices’, Financial
Times, March 2011 and the erosion of ecosystems services are
continuing, with associated environmental
23 McKinsey Global
Institute: Resource costs on the rise but still largely treated as
revolution: Meeting the
world’s energy, materials, externalities.
food, and water needs,
November 2011
Curbed economic growth. Together, high
24 Robert Costanza et al,
and volatile commodity prices dampen the
The value of the world’s
ecosystem services and growth of global businesses—and ultimately
natural capital, Nature Vol.
387, May 15, 1997 the economy at large. In February 2011,
20 | TOWARDS THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY
1. The limits of linear consumption
Continued
Disposal’s heavy toll. Regardless of the In other words, the global economy is
inherent lost value of discarded items, now reducing the Earth’s natural capital,
where these items end up is problematic and is unable to generate the necessary
in and of itself. From Greece to Indonesia surplus to rebuild the deficit.28,29 Take land
and Mali to Kazakhstan, large shares of degradation.‘Today’s agriculture does not
municipal solid waste end up in dumps or allow the soil to enrich itself, but depends
sub-standard landfills. If not conducted on chemical fertilisers that don’t replace the
25 CO2e stands for carbon properly, dumping or landfilling creates both wide variety of nutrients plants and humans
dioxide equivalent. This is a short- and long-term risks for human health need’ says Dr Tim Lobstein, the U.K.’s Food
measure used to compare
the emissions from various and the environment in the form of harmful Commission director.30 Land degradation
greenhouse gases based
upon their global warming leachate, dust, odour, local traffic burden, costs an estimated USD 40 billion31 annually
potential. For example, the and powerful greenhouse gas emissions. worldwide, without taking into account
global warming potential for
methane over 100 years is 21. Any biodegradable material, from kitchen the costs of increased fertiliser use, loss of
This means that emissions waste to paper and cardboard to wood and biodiversity, and loss of unique landscapes.
of one million metric tons
of methane is equivalent to natural textiles, generates landfill gas when it
emissions of 21 million metric
tons of carbon dioxide decays under anaerobic conditions. Landfill Global scope of risk exposure
(http://stats.oecd.org/ gas consists of around 50% methane, which Concern over the economic costs of the
glossary/detail.asp?ID=285).
is a greenhouse gas over twenty times more linear economy has recently been joined by
26 U.K. Department of powerful than CO . For each U.K. household, worries over the uncertain effects of climate
Energy and Climate Change 2
statistics, 2012 landfilled clothing results in 1.5 million tonnes change and geopolitical interconnectedness.
27 One compelling and of CO 2 e25 emissions per year—0.3% of total
often overlooked example emissions.26 Even sanitary landfills can be Recent research has highlighted nine
of such ecosystem
services is healthcare: the problematic as they require substantial space interlinked ‘planetary boundaries’—
pharmaceutical industry close to centres of consumption where land thresholds that, if crossed, represent a
makes heavy use of
biodiversity. Of all the anti- comes at a premium, and they are usually significant risk to the resilience of the world’s
cancer drugs available today,
42% are natural and 34% difficult to site due to community concerns, social and economic structures, especially
are semi-natural. Source: so all but a handful of areas are running out for the most vulnerable communities, and
Newman DJ, Cragg GM.
Natural products as sources of space. Beijing will have no more landfill could potentially destabilise the wider
of new drugs over the last 25 space in 4 years’ time, Johannesburg in ecosystem.32 Examples of these thresholds
years. J Nat Prod. 2007
around 12 years, and the entire U.K. will run are greenhouse gas emissions that induce
28 Ruth DeFries et al,
Millennium Ecosystem out of landfill capacity by 2018 if it continues climate change, rates of biodiversity loss,
Assessment, Current State & its current disposal practices. and interference with global phosphorus
Trends Assessment, 2005
and nitrogen cycles. A recent study by the
29 Will Steffen et al, The Moreover, much consumer goods waste Economics of Climate Adaptation Working
Anthropocene: From
Global Change to Planetary never enters a waste collection system, Group that focused on the economic impact
Stewardship, 2011
instead ending up as litter, giving rise to a of current climate patterns and potential
30 www.guardian. familiar list of problems. Unmanaged waste climate change scenarios in 2030 found that
co.uk/uk/2006/feb/02/
foodanddrink can lead to the injury and death of local some regions were at risk of losing 1 to 12%
wildlife and end up offshore where it can of their GDP annually as a result of existing
31 Klaus Kellner et al,
Terminal Evaluation of accumulate on beaches, in open waters (cf. climate patterns.
the UNEP/FAO/GEF
Project ‘Land Degradation the Pacific Garbage Patch) in fish, birds, and
Assessment in Drylands other animals—and ultimately in our own Geopolitical risk. The destabilising effects
(LADA)’, May 2011
food chain. Because it is unsightly, litter can of such losses also translate into greater
32 Johan Rockström et also impact the attractiveness of a location political risks. Recent history shows
al, Planetary Boundaries:
Exploring the Safe Operating as a tourist destination or for business. the impact political events can have on
Space for Humanity, Ecology
and Society 2009 commodity supply. Rising grain prices are
The erosion of ‘ecosystem services’. The loss considered a factor that contributed to
33 McKinsey Global Institute:
Resource revolution: Meeting of those benefits derived from ecosystems the ‘Arab Spring’ unrest (grain prices rose
the world’s energy, materials, that support and enhance human wellbeing by 37% in Egypt in 2007-2008).33,34 Some
food, and water needs,
November 2011 also deserves our full attention.27 The commodities are particularly vulnerable:
34 The Observer, 16 July 2011 Millennium Ecosystem Assessment examined nearly half the new projects to develop
24 ecosystems services, from direct services copper reserves are in countries with high
35 Political risk as per the
Economist Intelligence Unit’s such as food provision to more indirect political risk.35 Approximately 80% of all
Political Instability Index. services such as ecological control of pests available arable land on earth lies in areas
Countries scoring more
than 5.0 on ‘underlying and diseases, and found that 15 of the 24 afflicted by political or infrastructural issues.
vulnerability’ are classified as
‘low political stability’ are being degraded or used unsustainably. Some 37% of the world’s proven oil reserves
TOWARDS THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY | 21
and 19% of proven gas reserves are in industrial areas, with knock-on effects in the
countries with a high level of political risk. global automotive and computer industries:
Political motives also drive cartels, subsidies, a quarter of the world’s computer hard disks
and trade barriers, all of which can trigger or are made in Thailand.38
worsen resource scarcity and push up prices
and volatility levels. The end of agriculture
as we know it
Greater interconnectedness of resources is
a related issue. Commodity prices now show
The agricultural supply chain is the most
significant correlation with oil prices—and
important supply chain for the consumer
this holds true not only for metals and mining
goods industry. Agricultural demand,
products, but for food categories such as
which has seen strong growth in the past,
maize, wheat, and rice as well as beef. These
is expected to keep expanding as both
links increase the risk that shortages and
populations and incomes rise. By 2030,
price changes in one resource can rapidly
demand for the top four agricultural
spread to others.
products—rice, wheat, soy and maize—is
expected to rise 40 - 50% above 2010
The swift integration of financial markets
levels.39,40 It is therefore worth contemplating
and the increasing ease of transporting
how the material losses, financial effects and
resources globally also mean that regional
especially systems implications play out in
price shocks can quickly become global. As
this sector.
the World Bank’s ‘Turn Down the Heat’ report
notes, specialisation in production systems
Historically, the application of technology
is continuing its unstoppable evolution and
and products, particularly the combination of
has gone international: our dependence on
irrigation, mineral fertilisers, and pesticides
infrastructure to deliver produced goods is
used in the ‘Green Revolution’, have
therefore growing—and with it, our economic
generated impressive results, allowing supply
exposure to events across the world.
to keep pace with the increase in demand
Natural catastrophes with ripple effects are
(Figure 3). There are, however, signs that the
numerous in recent history: Hurricane Sandy
agricultural system as we know it is reaching
(with costs estimated at USD 100 billion)
its limits. The growth of grain yields has
on the U.S. East Coast just last October,
slowed to below population growth rates in
and Typhoon Bopha in the Philippines in
most regions—a sign that natural limits have
December 2012 (which according to early
been reached. Overall, worldwide cereal
estimates caused a GDP loss of 0.3%).36
productivity growth has slowed over time
from 2.7% in the 1970s to 1.3% in the 2000s.41
This trend is likely to continue and become
As U.S. investor Jeremy Grantham remarked
more acute as emerging markets integrate
in his July 2012 newsletter:42 ‘Quite probably,
more thoroughly into global value chains
the most efficient grain producers are
and financial systems. Many up-and-coming
approaching a ‘glass ceiling’ where further
economic centres in Asia, such as Kolkata
increases in productivity per acre approach
(Calcutta), Ho Chi Minh City, or Ningbo,
36 The Economist zero at the grain species’ limit (just as race
Intelligence Unit are situated on the coast and are not only horses do not run materially faster now than
accumulating assets at breakneck pace but
37 Too big to flood, The in the 1920s).’ Several factors are expected
Guardian, 17 December 2012 also house growing numbers of immigrants to further exacerbate the stagnation of yield
in low-lying, flood-prone areas.37 Because
38 Too big to flood, The improvements, including a decrease in public
Guardian, 17 December 2012 of their role in regional and global markets,
spending on agricultural R&D, increased
39 USDA, FAO, expert severe damage to any of these cities by a soil degradation, greater water scarcity, and
interviews storm affects nearby and far-away regions
This includes demand from climate change.
energy and feed applications alike. The cost associated with such events is
no longer simply that of local repairs and has
40 Food and Agriculture
Organization of the United considerable social consequences. Large-
Nations Statistical Division
(FAOSTAT) scale business interruption represents a very
real setback in regional and potentially global
41 GMO Quarterly Newsletter,
‘Welcome to Dystopia’ July economic growth. 2011’s record flooding in
2012, available at www.gmo.
and around Bangkok disabled several of its
com
22 | TOWARDS THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY
1. The limits of linear consumption
Continued
FIGURE 3 Application of technology and products have generated impressive results over the last 50 years
Global fertiliser consumption Rapidly growing supply
million tonnes
Global Brazil China India Rest of world
Global 131 165 Yield
Global food production1 Global yield2
31 4x million ton tonnes/hectare
6,500
12.0
6,000
11.0
5,500
10.0
Global pesticide consumption
5,000
USD million 31,191 9.0
4,500
8.0
11,600 38x 4,000
850 7.0
3,500
6.0
3,000 +85%
5.0
2,500
Global irrigated land surface 2,000 4.0
million hectares 3.0
310 1,500
156 231 1,000 2.0
2x 500 1.0
0 0
1961 1984 2008 1961 1971 1981 1991 2001 2009
1 Includes cereals, citrus fruit, course grain, primary fibre crops, fruit, primary oil crops, pulses, roots and tubers, tree nuts, vegetables
2 Weighted average of the above agricultural products
SOURCE: FAO; Zhang, Jiang and Ou, 2011
Since the invention of the Haber-Bosch to fend off pests, and more prone to erosion.
process in 1909, which allowed production Loss of soil carbon is problematic given the
of nitrogen fertiliser on an industrial scale, role of this carbon in several developing and
cheap fossil fuels have enabled mineral maintaining factors that are critical to plant
fertilisers to unlock agricultural yield growth, such as soil texture, water retention
improvement in many regions. As farming and nutrient delivery to the roots of plants.
expands to feed the world’s increasing In Europe, around 45% of soils have low or
population and its changing diets, rising very low organic matter content, 45% have
demand is likely to cause fertiliser prices medium content.45
to rise and become more volatile. Demand
for phosphorus, for example, is projected Another very important form of degradation
43 McKinsey Phosphorus
Demand Model, Cordell, to grow by 3% a year through to 2020.43 is nutrient depletion. There are indications
D. phosphorus research
Fertiliser prices have already entered a new that intensive agriculture—scientists and
studies, 2009; Ellen
MacArthur circular phase of volatility since around 2005, with agricultural engineers have been very
economy team
price fly-ups of a magnitude not seen since successful at multiplying the amount of
44 International Soil the 1970s, when the Green Revolution and biomass we can grow on a single hectare—
Reference and Information
Centre, Oregon State use of fertiliser dramatically increased world takes out more nutrients from the soil than
University, Resource
food production. are returned, leading to both macro- and
Conversation and Food
Security micronutrient deficiencies.
45 Low or very low Soil degradation is estimated to extend to
organic matter content some 25 - 35% of the 1.5 billion hectares of Macronutrients are those key nutrients
means 0 - 2% organic
carbon, medium content land under cultivation,44 meaning that it is responsible for healthy plant growth that
means 2 - 6% organic
less fertile, less able to retain water, less able are required in fairly large amounts. It takes
carbon
TOWARDS THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY | 23
centuries to build up the nitrogen stocks oxygen levels in inland waterways and
in the soil through natural processes.46 coastal areas, creating ‘dead zones’ where
46 Allen, R.C. 2008. The
nitrogen hypothesis and The global consumption of NPK fertilisers fish cannot survive. The number of these has
the English agricultural (Nitrogen (N), Phosphorus (P), Potassium approximately doubled each decade since
revolution: A biological
analysis. The Journal of (K)) increased by 435% from 1961 to 2009 the 1960s, now covering part of the ocean
Economic History, 68:
182-210
(from 31 million tons to 167 million tons)47, as large as the U.K.53
but many soils now suffer from a negative
47 Food and Agriculture
Organization of the United nutrient balance, where nutrient removal is Furthermore, a recent study has linked
Nations Statistical Division greater than the input.48 Negative nutrient industrial farming in the U.S. Midwest to
(FAOSTAT)
balance is not just an issue in developing increased insect pest occurrence and
48 Globally, soil nutrient
deficits were estimated
countries like India and Africa: much of the insecticide usage.54 Conversion to intensive
at an average rate (kg U.S. Corn Belt has a negative P balance, and monocultures increases pest populations
ha-1 yr-1) of 18.7 N, 5.1 P,
and 38.8 K, accounting the entire western half of the country has a as natural habitats for pest predators are
for 59%, 85%, and 90% highly negative K balance.49 removed and dense cover crops (as used
of harvested area in the
year 2000, respectively. in crop rotation) are no longer available to
The annual total nutrient
Intensive agricultural practices have also suppress weeds. This intensifies the use of
deficit was 5.5 million
tonnes N, 2.3 million tonnes resulted in micronutrient depletion in several pesticides and herbicides, induces the loss
P, and million 12.2 tonnes
K, coupled with a total parts of the world. Micronutrients are not of biodiversity, and can give rise to adverse
potential global production less critical to plant health but are required human health effects.
loss of 1,136 tonnes yr-1.
Source: Z. X. Tan, R. Lal & in relatively small amounts. Depletion is
K. D. Weibe (2005): Global not just the result of a negative removal- The circular vision
Soil Nutrient Depletion and
Yield Reduction, Journal vs.-input balance but also of several other
of Sustainable Agriculture,
26:1, 123-146 factors such as high N, P and K application, Upcoming growth in demand could strain
low manure applications and excessive the linear economy to breaking point. Taken
49 IPNI. 2012. A Nutrient
Use Information System irrigation. Zinc deficiency appears to be the together, the dynamics described in this
(NuGIS) for the U.S.
most widespread and frequent micronutrient chapter present a major challenge for the
Norcross, GA. January 12,
2012. Available online www. deficiency problem in crop and pasture current ‘take-make-dispose’ system. While
ipni.net/nugis
plants worldwide, resulting in severe losses this system will respond to price signals,
50 B. J. Alloway: Zinc in in yield and nutritional quality, especially in these signals are incomplete and distorted.
Soils and Crop Nutrition,
published by IZA and IFA cereal production. It is estimated that nearly USD 1.1 trillion is spent annually on resource
Brussels, Belgium and Paris,
half the soils on which cereals are grown subsidies (agriculture, fishing, energy and
France, 2008
have levels of available zinc so low as to water), for example.55 We therefore believe
51 S. Yadav et al: Soil-plant-
animal relationship of zinc cause zinc deficiency.50 A typical example of that the market will not overcome the lock-
in milk buffaloes of Jind nutrient-deficient food is a study in Haryana, in effect of existing production economics,
district in Haryana, 2000,
Indian Journal of Animal India, where low levels of zinc in buffalo milk regulations and mindsets in a business-as-
Sciences 70: 965-967
were directly linked to low zinc levels in local usual scenario, and will not address the large
52 Examples include 79% soils, and in fodder produced on these soils.51 and continued imbalances described here
less iron in cucumbers, 63%
less vitamin B2 in lettuce, quickly and extensively enough to be able
and 55% less calcium in According to a U.S. Department of to keep meeting future demand. If this is the
tomatoes. Source: DR Davis
et al, Changes in USDA food Agriculture study in 2004 that followed 14 case, the resulting upward price shifts could,
composition data for 43
key nutrients in a range of vegetable crops, if not stall, then at least severely hamper
garden crops, 1950 to 1999,
Journal of the American the nutrient content of 12 had declined from further growth in the decades to come.
College of Nutrition,
December 2004; USDA 1950 to 1999.52 While not necessarily an
immediate result of nutrient imbalances in In this report, we investigate how ‘circular’
53 Diaz & Rosenberg, 2008;
http://sailorsforthesea. the soil, this is linked to the same industrial business models could provide new
org/Sailing-and-The-
approach to agriculture that leads to soil opportunities for resilient growth despite a
Environment/Ocean-Watch/
Ocean-Watch-Essays/ nutrient deficits, as these deficiencies are challenging global outlook. With a focus on
Ocean-Dead-Zones.aspx
usually the result of changes in cultivated optimising production/consumption systems
54 Timothy Meehan et al, varieties, where there may be trade-offs comprehensively rather than maximising
Agricultural landscape
simplification and between higher yield, size and appearance the performance of individual elements,
insecticide use in the
at the expense of lower nutrient content. the term ‘circular economy’ denotes an
Midwestern United States,
PNAS June 2011 industrial economy that is restorative by
55 McKinsey Global Mineral fertilisers also generate negative intention and design. In addition to meeting
Institute: Resource externalities beyond the agricultural current demand/consumption needs, a
revolution: Meeting the
world’s energy, materials, production system, as agricultural fertiliser circular economy also actively invests in
food, and water needs,
run-offs are the main contributor to reduced improving resource systems and increasing
November 2011
24 | TOWARDS THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY
1. The limits of linear consumption
Continued
their resilience to ensure their continuing
availability in the future. In short, it replaces a
throughput- and efficiency-driven view that
ultimately degrades capital with one where
capital rebuilding and maintenance offers
an upward spiral or virtuous cycle, and a
continuous flow of materials and products. In
a circular economy, agricultural practices aim
at optimising yields while also improving the
quality of soil, water, and air. It views the long-
term health of our agricultural systems as our
best chance for long-term performance.
Our preliminary research shows that moving
to such a model could lead to significant
economic benefits. It could help mitigate the
aspects of the current system that put pressure
on resource supply, raise commodity prices,
and increase price volatility. It could also rebuild
valuable natural asset value and enable the
resilient provision of food, feed and fibre.
53 McKinsey Global
Institute: Resource
revolution: Meeting the
world’s energy, materials,
food, and water needs,
November 2011
TOWARDS THE CIR2CULAR ECONOMY | 04
From linear to circular
Accelerating a proven concept
Discussing how the principles of the circular
economy apply to consumer goods—within
both the biological and the technical spheres.
1
Some 37% of the world’s proven oil reserves
and 19% of proven gas reserves are in
countries with a high level of political risk.
Political motives also drive cartels, subsidies,
and trade barriers, all of which can trigger or
worsen resource scarcity and push up prices
and volatility levels.
Greater interconnectedness of resources is a
related issue. Commodity prices now show
significant correlation with oil prices—and
this holds true not only for metals and mining
products, but for food categories such as
maize, wheat, and rice as well as beef. These
links increase the risk that shortages and
price changes in one resource can rapidly
spread to others.
The swift integration of financial markets
and the increasing ease of transporting
resources globally also mean that regional
price shocks can quickly become global. As
the World Bank’s ‘Turn Down the Heat’ report
notes, specialisation in production systems
is continuing its unstoppable evolution and
has gone international: our dependence on
infrastructure to deliver produced goods is
therefore growing—and with it, our economic
exposure to events across the world.
Natural catastrophes with ripple effects are
numerous in recent history: Hurricane Sandy
(with costs estimated at USD 100 billion)
on the U.S. East Coast just last October,
and Typhoon Bopha in the Philippines in
December 2012 (which according to early
estimates caused a GDP loss of 0.3%). This
trend is likely to continue and become more
acute as emerging markets integrate more
thoroughly into global value chains and
financial systems. Many up-and-coming
economic centres in Asia, such as Kolkata
26 | TOWARDS THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY
2. From linear to circular
Accelerating a proven concept
The linear ‘take-make-dispose’ economic the same use afterwards. In a linear system,
model relies on large quantities of easily this irreversibility of consumption is also the
accessible resources and energy. Much of fate of the many technical materials—tied
our existing efforts to decouple the global up in one-way packaging, fast fashion, or
economy from resource constraints focus on semi-durables. A circular economy, however,
driving ‘linear’ efficiencies—i.e., a reduction advocates the increasing use of a ‘functional
of resources and fossil energy consumed per service’ model for technical materials, in
unit of manufacturing output. Proponents of which manufacturers or retailers retain
the circular economy argue that focussing ownership of their products (or have an
on efficiency alone will not alter the finite effective take-back arrangement) and, where
nature of resource stocks, and—at best— possible, act as service providers, selling the
simply delays the inevitable. A change of use or performance of products, not their
the entire operating system is necessary. consumption. This shift has direct implications
for the development of business models that
The concept of the circular create value in novel ways. Innovator and
economy industrial analyst Walter Stahel explains: ‘The
linear model turned services into products
The circular economy refers to an industrial that can be sold, but this throughput
economy that is restorative by intention. It approach is a wasteful one. [...] In the past,
aims to enable effective flows of materials, reuse and service-life extension were often
energy, labour and information so that natural strategies in situations of scarcity or poverty
and social capital can be rebuilt. It seeks to and led to products of inferior quality. Today,
reduce energy use per unit of output and they are signs of good resource husbandry
accelerate the shift to renewable energy by and smart management’.57
design, treating everything in the economy
as a valuable resource. The idea goes beyond Based on natural principles
the requirements of the production and
consumption of goods and services. The The circular economy takes its insights
concept of the circular economy is grounded from living systems as these have proved
in the study of real-world, non-linear, adaptable and resilient, and model the ‘waste
feedback-rich systems, particularly living is food’ relationship very well. They also bring
systems. A major outcome of taking insights insights around the cascading of materials as
from living systems and applying them to a way of recognising and capturing value as
the economy is the notion of optimising entropy (disorder) increases.
systems rather than components. Context
is everything, so the rebuilding of capital Design out waste. Waste does not exist when
stocks to provide productive and long-lasting the biological and technical components of
flows is an integral part of this ‘design to fit’ a product are designed by intention to fit
approach. The circular economy requires within a biological or technical materials cycle
careful management of material flows, which designed for remarketing, remanufacture,
are of two types. These are characterised disassembly or repurposing. The biological
by McDonough and Braungart in Cradle to materials are non-toxic and can easily
Cradle: Remaking the Way We Make Things be returned to the soil by composting or
as biological nutrients—materials designed anaerobic digestion, and may also yield
to re-enter the biosphere safely and rebuild higher-value substances before decomposing.
natural capital, and technical nutrients, Technical materials—polymers, alloys, and
designed to circulate at high quality without other man-made materials—are designed
56 William McDonough and entering the biosphere.56 to be recovered, refreshed and upgraded,
Michael Braungart, Cradle to
minimising the energy input required and
Cradle: Remaking the Way We
Make Things, New York: North As a result, the circular economy draws a maximising the retention of value (in terms
Point Press, 2002.
sharp distinction between the consumption of both economics and resources). This is
57 Unless explicitly stated and use of materials. Consumption is the a vital difference versus recycling within a
otherwise, all quotations in this
document are from interviews inevitable fate of materials like food and linear economy, which takes products never
conducted in the period from
October 2012 through January drink that are irreversibly altered during designed for regeneration by intention and
2013 (a list of experts consulted their useful life, and can no longer be put to often results in a rapid degradation of value.
for the analysis and reporting is
given in the appendix).
TOWARDS THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY | 27
Build resilience through diversity. Modularity,
Efficiency vs. effectiveness— versatility and adaptivity are prized features
a key distinction that need to be prioritised in an uncertain
and fast-evolving world. Production systems
Eco-efficiency begins with the should be flexible—able to use many different
assumption of a one-way, linear inputs. Diverse systems with many nodes,
flow of materials through industrial connections and scales are more resilient
systems: raw materials are extracted in the face of external shocks than systems
from the environment, transformed built simply for efficiency—throughput
into products, and eventually maximisation—as this results in brittleness.
disposed of. In this system, eco- Since efficiency can introduce additional
efficient techniques seek only to risk, there is a business case for allocating
minimise the volume, velocity, and resources to building resilience, rather than
toxicity of the material flow system, using them as a reserve fund.
but are incapable of altering its
linear progression. Some materials Shift to renewable energy sources. Systems
are recycled, but often as an end-of- should ultimately aim to run on renewable
pipe solution, since these materials energy—enabled by the reduced threshold
are not designed to be recycled. energy levels required by a restorative,
Instead of enabling another ‘cycle’, circular economy. The agricultural production
this process actually sees products, system runs on current solar income but
components and materials lose value. significant amounts of fossil fuels are used
This downgrading of material quality in fertilisers, farm machinery, processing and
limits usability and maintains a linear, through the supply chain. More integrated
cradle-to-grave dynamic of materials food and farming systems would reduce the
within the economy. need for fossil-fuel based inputs and capture
more of the energy value of by-products
In contrast to this approach of and manures. They would also increase the
minimisation and dematerialisation, demand for human labour—which Walter
the concept of eco-effectiveness Stahel has argued should be an integral
proposes the transformation of part of this evolution: ‘Shifting taxation
products and their associated from labour to energy and material
material flows such that they form consumption would fast-track adoption of
a supportive relationship with more circular business models; it would also
ecological systems and future make sure that we are putting the efficiency
economic growth. The goal is not to pressure on the true bottleneck of our
minimise the cradle-to-grave flow of resource-consuming society/economy—there
materials, but to generate cyclical, is no shortage of labour and (renewable)
cradle-to-cradle ‘metabolisms’ that energy in the long term.’
enable materials to maintain their
status as resources and accumulate Think in systems. The ability to understand
intelligence over time (upcycling). how parts influence one another within a
The result is a mutually beneficial whole, and the relationship of the whole to
relationship between ecological the parts, is crucial. Elements are considered
and economic systems—positive in relation to their environmental and social
recoupling of the relationship contexts. While a machine is also a system,
between economy and ecology. it is clearly narrowly bounded and assumed
to be deterministic. Systems thinking usually
refers to the overwhelming majority of
real-world systems: these are non-linear,
feedback-rich, and interdependent. In such
systems, imprecise starting conditions
combined with feedback lead to often
surprising consequences, and to outcomes
that are frequently not proportional to the
28 | TOWARDS THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY
2. From linear to circular
Continued
input (runaway or ‘undamped’ feedback). Think in cascades. For biological materials,
Such systems cannot be managed in the the essence of value creation lies in the
conventional, ‘linear’ sense, requiring instead opportunity to extract additional value from
more flexibility and more frequent adaptation products and materials by cascading them
to changing circumstances. Systems through other applications. In biological
thinking emphasises stocks and flows. The decomposition, be it natural or in controlled
maintenance or replenishment of stock is fermentation processes, material is broken
inherent in feedback-rich systems, which are down in stages by microorganisms like
assumed to have some longevity, and has bacteria and fungi that extract energy and
the potential to encompass regeneration nutrients from the carbohydrates, fats, and
and even evolution in living systems. In a proteins found in the material. For instance,
business context, their modular and adaptive going from tree to furnace forgoes the
properties mean more leeway for innovation value that could be harnessed via staged
and the development of diversified value decomposition through successive uses as
chains, as well as less dependence on purely timber and timber products before decay
short-term strategies. and eventual incineration.
Understanding flows in complex systems The complete biological entity should
also tells us something more about the be considered. Mycelium packaging, an
trade-off between efficiency and resilience. innovation based on the bonding properties
Systems that are increasingly efficient have of mushroom ‘roots’, uses the entire ‘living
fewer nodes, fewer connections, and greater polymer’—as well as the organic waste
throughput but also become increasingly system on which it grows. A holistic,
brittle or—to use Nassim Taleb’s term— cascade-based relationship with coffee
‘fragile’. This makes them vulnerable to would consider the entire fruit (the cherry)
the effects of shocks like price volatility or and the whole coffee-growing protocol.
interruption of supply. Systems with many The entire shrub in its context also needs
nodes and connections are more resilient, but integrating: as a shade-loving plant, it may
can become sclerotic—slow to change (at the well be positioned adjacent to other trees.
extreme), and thus ineffective. Effectiveness In addition, coffee production generates
is the sweet spot where resilience and 12 million tonnes of agricultural waste
efficiency interplay: efficiency (doing things per year. This waste could be used to
right) is welcome, but in the service of replace hardwoods traditionally used as
effectiveness (doing the right thing), with growth media to farm high-value tropical
the prime objective of ensuring the business mushrooms, a market with double-digit
fits the economy. This is another way of growth (currently USD 17 billion globally).
seeing the systems optimisation question Coffee waste is in fact a superior medium,
discussed earlier. Because more of the as it shortens the production period. The
flows of materials, goods, and services are residue (after being used as a growth
valorised in a circular economy and because medium) can be reused as livestock feed,
risk is reduced, the firm is compensated for as it contains valuable enzymes, and can
the reduced upside of efficiency with lower be returned to the soil in the form of animal
costs, additional cash flows and—in many manure at the end of the cascade.58
cases—fewer regulatory concerns (as wastes
are eliminated, or are now benign flows).
58 http://theblueeconomy.org/
blue/Case_3_files/Case%203%20
Coffee.pdf
TOWARDS THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY | 29
FIGURE 4 The circular economy—an industrial system that is restorative by design
Mining/materials manufacturing
Farming/collection1
Materials/parts manufacturer
Technical materials
Biological materials
Biochemical
Product manufacturer
feedstock
Soil Recycle
restoration Biosphere
Retail/service provider
Refurbish/
remanufacture
Reuse/redistribute
Biogas Cascades Maintain
6 2803 0006 9
Consumer User
Anaerobic
digestion/ Collection Collection
composting2
Extraction of
biochemical Energy recovery
feedstock2
Leakage—to be minimised
Landfill
1 Hunting and fishing
2 Can take both post-harvest and post-consumer waste as an input
SOURCE: Ellen MacArthur Foundation circular economy team
Figure 4 illustrates how biological and
technical materials (and the products/
components based on them) cycle
through the economic system, each with
their own set of characteristics. Unlike
biological materials, technical materials
are not cascaded to other applications
but the functionality, integrity and the
value of embedded energy are maintained
through remarketing, reuse, disassembly,
refurbishment and remanufacture.
The second law of thermodynamics
prevents endless unaltered cycles—
everything decays. How this circular
system would work will be elaborated
on later in this chapter.
30 | TOWARDS THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY
2. From linear to circular
Continued
Circular economy—schools of thought insists on the importance of selling services
rather than products, an idea referred to
The circular economy concept has deep- as the ‘functional service economy’, now
rooted origins and cannot be traced back more widely subsumed into the notion of
to one single date or author. Its practical ‘performance economy’. Stahel argues that
applications to modern economic systems the circular economy should be considered
and industrial processes, however, have a framework, and its supporters see it as a
gained momentum since the late 1970s coherent model that forms a valuable part of
as a result of the efforts of a small a response to the end of the era of low-cost
number of academics, thought leaders, oil and materials.
and businesses.
Cradle to Cradle. In the 1990s, German
The general concept has been developed chemist and visionary Michael Braungart
and refined by the following schools went on to develop, together with American
of thought. architect Bill McDonough, the Cradle to
Cradle™ concept and certification process.
Regenerative Design. In the 1970s, an This design philosophy considers all material
American professor named John T. involved in industrial and commercial
Lyle launched a challenge for graduate processes to be nutrients, of which there
students. Lyle asked students to forge are two main categories: technical and
ideas for a society in which ‘daily activities biological. The Cradle to Cradle framework
were based on the value of living within focuses on design for effectiveness in terms
the limits of available renewable resources of product flows with positive impact, which
without environmental degradation’, fundamentally differentiates it from the
according to a California research centre traditional design focus on reducing
that is now named after Lyle.59 The negative impacts.
term ‘regenerative design’ came to be
associated with this idea—that all systems, Cradle to Cradle design sees the safe and
from agriculture onwards, could be productive processes of nature’s ‘biological
orchestrated in a regenerative manner (in metabolism’ as a model for developing a
other words, that processes themselves ‘technical metabolism’ flow of industrial
renew or regenerate the sources of energy materials. The model puts particular
and materials that they consume). See emphasis on precisely defining the molecular
for example Regenerative Design for composition of materials: ‘knowing what
Sustainable Development (Wiley, 1994).60 you have, which is the basis of every quality-
based materials recycling system’. In some
Performance Economy. Walter Stahel, cases, durability is not the optimal strategy—
architect and industrial analyst, sketched some (parts of) consumer goods end up very
the vision of an economy in loops (or dispersed because of consumption patterns
circular economy) and its impact on job or are extremely hard to retrieve for different
59 ’History of the Lyle Center’, creation, economic competitiveness, reasons, for example because of severe
Lyle Center for Regenerative
Studies, Cal Poly Pomona resource savings, and waste prevention in soiling. In such instances, it is preferable to
(http://www.csupomona.
edu/~crs/history.html) his 1976 research report to the European design the products such that material purity
Commission The Potential for Substituting is maintained throughout, rendering it easier
60 Regenerative Design for
Sustainable Development (The Manpower for Energy, co-authored with to extract their regenerative powers and
Wiley Series in Sustainable Genevieve Reday.61,62 Stahel’s Product- return them to the land. The Cradle to Cradle
Design) by John Tillman Lyle,
John Wiley & Sons, 1994. Life Institute, considered one of the first framework addresses not only materials
61 The report was published pragmatic and credible sustainability think but also energy and water inputs, and builds
in 1982 as the book Jobs for tanks, pursues four main goals: product-life on three key principles: ‘Waste
Tomorrow: The Potential for
Substituting Manpower for extension, long-life goods, reconditioning equals food’—‘Use current solar income’—
Energy. activities, and waste prevention. It also ‘Celebrate diversity’.
62 http://www.product-life.
org/en/major-publications/
performance-economy
63 www.biomimicryinstitute.
org
TOWARDS THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY | 31
Industrial Ecology. Industrial ecology is the ‘innovation inspired by nature’.63
study of material and energy flows through Biomimicry relies on three key principles:
industrial systems. Focusing on connections
between operators within the ‘industrial • Nature as model: Study nature’s models
ecosystem’, this approach aims at creating and emulate these forms, processes,
closed-loop processes in which waste serves systems, and strategies to solve human
as an input, eliminating the notion of an problems.
undesirable by-product. Industrial ecology
• Nature as measure: Use an ecological
adopts a systemic point of view, designing
standard to judge the sustainability of our
production processes in accordance with local
innovations.
ecological constraints, while looking at their
global impact from the outset, and attempting • Nature as mentor: View and value nature
to shape them so they perform as close to not based on what we can extract from the
living systems as possible. This framework natural world, but what we can learn from it.
is sometimes referred to as the ‘science of
sustainability’, given its interdisciplinary Permaculture. Australian ecologists Bill
nature, and its principles can also be applied Mollison and David Holmgren coined the
in the services sector. With an emphasis on term ‘permaculture’ in the late 1970s,
natural capital restoration, industrial ecology defining it as ‘the conscious design and
also focuses on social wellbeing. maintenance of agriculturally productive
ecosystems, which have the diversity,
Blue Economy. Initiated by former Ecover stability and resilience of natural
CEO and Belgian businessman Gunter ecosystems’. Considerable interest in the
Pauli, the Blue Economy is an open-source concept exists around the globe, propelled
movement bringing together concrete case by thinkers and practitioners like Masanobu
studies, initially compiled in an eponymous Fukuoka in Japan and Sepp Holzer in
report handed over to the Club of Rome. Austria. Permaculture draws elements from
As the official manifesto states, ‘using the both traditional sustainable agriculture
resources available in cascading systems, and modern innovations and principles.
(...) the waste of one product becomes the Permaculture systems improve yields and
input to create a new cash flow’. Based on diets while reducing water consumption,
21 founding principles, the Blue Economy improving soil quality and restoring
insists on solutions being determined by their biodiversity. Permaculture integrates
local environment and physical/ecological elements from agroforestry (forest farming,
characteristics, putting the emphasis on alley cropping, windbreaks), conservation
gravity as the primary source of energy. The agriculture (fertiliser trees, no till and
report, which doubles up as the movement’s uncompacted soils, permanent soil cover),
manifesto, describes ‘100 innovations that organic agriculture (organic inputs and
can create 100 million jobs within the next on-site nutrient recycling), and traditional
10 years’, and provides many examples of agriculture (rainwater harvesting and water
winning South-South collaborative projects— infiltration, including key-line design and tied
another original feature of this approach contour bunds). Further aspects it covers
intent on promoting its hands-on focus. are sustainable livestock management
(integrated crop-livestock systems) for
Biomimicry. Janine Benyus, author of subsistence smallholders and commercial
Biomimicry: Innovation Inspired by Nature, operations, and agro-ecology (the optimal
defines her approach as ‘a new discipline that selection of system elements originating
studies nature’s best ideas and then imitates in different times and places). It deploys
these designs and processes to solve human methods that are compatible with the
problems’. Studying a leaf to invent a better sustained intensification of production.
solar cell is an example. She thinks of it as
32 | TOWARDS THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY
2. From linear to circular
Continued
Terminology • Biochemicals extraction
Applying biomass conversion processes
• Fast-moving consumer goods and equipment to produce low-volume
(or ‘consumer packaged goods’) but high-value chemical products. In a
Fast-moving consumer goods are ‘biorefinery’ these processes are combined
characterised by high throughput volumes to produce more than one product, and fine
and frequent purchases; they represent chemicals extraction can be combined with
a large physical volume and come at the extraction of bulk chemicals as platform
relatively low prices. Most fast-moving molecules or for fuel production.
consumer goods have a short to very short
lifespan. Some product categories are • Anaerobic digestion
literally consumed, others are deployed for A process that takes place in the absence
only a relatively short time or used just a of oxygen in which microorganisms break
few times. Fast-moving consumer goods down organic materials, such as food scraps,
include food and beverages, apparel, beauty manure, and sewage sludge. Anaerobic
products, and others. In the remainder of digestion produces biogas and a solid residue
this report when we refer to ‘consumer called digestate. Biogas, made primarily of
goods’ we mean ‘fast-moving consumer methane and carbon dioxide, can be used
goods’—and their packaging. as a source of energy similar to natural gas.
The solid residue can be applied on land as a
• Reuse of goods fertiliser or composted and used as a
The renewed use of a product for the same soil amendment.
purpose in its original form or with little
enhancement or change. This can also apply • Composting
to what Walter Stahel calls ‘catalytic goods’, A biological process in the presence of
e.g., water used as a cooling medium. oxygen during which microorganisms
(e.g., bacteria and fungi), insects, snails, and
• Cascaded use of components earthworms break down organic materials
and materials (such as leaves, grass clippings, garden
Putting materials and components to debris, and certain food wastes) into a soil-
different uses after the end of their like material called compost. Composting
lives across different value streams and is a form of recycling, a natural way
extracting their stored energy and material of returning biological nutrients to the
‘coherence’. Along the cascade, their soil. In-vessel composting (IVC) is an
material order declines (in other words, industrial form of rapid composting under
entropy increases). controlled conditions.
• Materials recycling • Energy recovery
– Functional recycling. The process of The conversion of non-recyclable waste
recovering materials for the original materials into useable heat, electricity, or
purpose or for other purposes, excluding fuel through a variety of waste-to-energy
energy recovery. processes, including combustion, gasification,
pyrolysis, anaerobic digestion, and landfill
– Downcycling. The process of gas recovery.
converting materials into new materials
of lesser quality, economic value, and/or • Landfilling
reduced functionality. The disposal of waste in a site used for
the controlled deposit of solid waste onto
– Upcycling. The process of or into land.
converting materials into new materials
of higher quality, economic value, and/or
increased functionality.
TOWARDS THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY | 33
Sources of value creation
The principles of the circular economy offer
not just a description of how it should work
as a whole, but also a guide to where the
profit pools are. The economics and relative
attractiveness of different circular models
(reuse versus remanufacturing versus
recycling, for example) vary significantly for
different products and markets, all of which
we spell out in the next chapter. Abstracting
from the differences, we have identified
four models (plus ‘regeneration’ as the
heart of the circular economy), as patterns
for creating more value from the materials
used in consumer goods. The overarching
fundamentals remain the same in all cases.
• Retain resource value by converting associated costs. Whenever the costs to
today’s ‘waste’ streams into by-products— the economy of collecting and reprocessing
creating new effective flows within or across the product, component or material, are
value chains. lower than the linear alternative (including
the avoidance of end-of-life treatment
• Retain the overall effectiveness of the costs), circular systems can be economical.
system—do not optimise individual parts This arbitrage opportunity, revealed by
of a process or design while neglecting the contrasting a linear with a circular setup, is
impact of such changes on the system as a at the core of the circular economy’s relative
whole. This requires knowledge of the system economic value creation potential.
in its geographical context as well as its For consumer goods and their packaging,
performance and evolution over time. opportunities lie in building efficient (re)
distribution systems that result in reuse
Power of the inner circle at scale: collecting and washing bottles
The closer the system gets to direct reuse, to refill them with beverages, or reusing
i.e., the perpetuation of its original purpose, clothing instead of performing single-sale
the larger the cost savings should be in transactions. Higher resource prices and
terms of material, labour, energy, capital fully reflecting externalities such as avoided
and the associated externalities, such as landfill can make this arbitrage more
greenhouse gas emissions, water, or toxic attractive. This is especially important as such
substances. This opportunity applies mainly systems get started, given that they typically
to the elements of fast-moving consumer require high density levels and volumes to
goods that still exist ‘beyond the end user’, make collection efficient and worthwhile.
such as packaging or goods that can be
directly reused such as apparel. Given
the inefficiencies along the linear supply
chain, tighter circles will also benefit from
a comparatively higher virgin material
substitution effect. Consumer goods in
general have a relatively low unit value, very
high throughput, and account for a large
proportion of household waste. As a result,
greater direct reuse—by circulating the same
packaging multiple times, for example—can
substantially reduce the amount of virgin
material needed, and its embedded and
34 | TOWARDS THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY
2. From linear to circular
Continued
$
$ $
Power of circling longer Power of cascaded use across industries
A second way to create value stems from and inbound material/product substitution
keeping products, components, and materials While the previous value creation
in use longer within the circular economy. opportunities refer to reusing products
This can be achieved by either designing and materials, there is also an arbitrage
products and systems that enable more opportunity in using discarded materials
consecutive cycles or by spending more time from one value chain as by-products,
within a single cycle. Such shifts primarily replacing virgin material inflow in another.
require greater durability. For garments this The arbitrage value creation potential in
could mean yarns, fabrics, and finishes that these cascades is rooted in the fact that the
are more resistant to wear and tear, designs marginal costs of repurposing the cascading
that can be easily repaired, or styles that can material are lower than the cost of virgin
be updated while in use. Higher resource material (including its embedded costs
prices and increased commodity price and externalities). Capturing a multitude of
volatility will render this approach to value possible value streams (rather than just one)
creation even more attractive. associated with a specific consumer item can
also improve companies’ economic resilience.
True consumables like food will by definition Examples include:
cycle only once. Many will never even
complete that one cycle: they may be • Manufacturing processes for food and
discarded, or diverted from their intended beverages tend to result in sizable flows of
use. It is important to review excessively valuable, unused materials that are rich in
stringent product specifications, improve nutrients. While these are partially cascaded
stock management, and make better today, for example as food for animals, there
household choices to help ensure that such is significant additional economic potential
products are put to good use in their once- to be captured. For example, widening good
only cycle. practice to more geographies and value
chains, and identifying more economically
For true consumables and other consumer valuable cascades for today’s process
goods alike, a further necessity is applying ‘rejects’ to cycle through.
technology and building awareness to
improve recovery rates from current • Discarded food has huge potential as a
recycling systems—and by doing so, retain source of value, whether as energy, nutrients,
a higher proportion of the material within or carbon, if it can be efficiently collected
the cycle. and sorted. A number of municipalities
already promote the process of anaerobic
digestion or composting, although the
practice is still sub-scale in most markets.
TOWARDS THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY | 35
• Fully circular systems would also capture of the circles. Unlike pure wool, which can
the value of human and animal waste as an be re-spun with hardly any loss of quality,
agricultural input that helps replenish both fabric blends are still difficult to separate for
macro- and micronutrients. recycling without degradation in value.
• Similarly, transforming cotton-based In a similar vein, optimising product and
clothing into fibrefill for furniture, and packaging design in conjunction with sorting
later into insulation material before safely and collection systems creates an ensemble
returning it to the biosphere. (provided no suitable for full-value recovery. Designing
harmful additives or dyes have been used packaging to fit both a product and its
in the production process). use environment (in which it will also be
discarded) makes sorting, cascading, and
recycling much more cost effective. This is
not a trivial task with increasingly complex
packaging technology, particularly within
the retail food sector. Differences also exist
between packaging for on-the-go products
versus at-home products. Both of these differ,
in turn, from packaging for food items to be
sold at a specific event, which typically offers
a more controlled environment for collection.
Some companies, when selecting packaging
for different markets, systematically integrate
the nature and quality of end-of-life systems
in those markets into their decisions.
Power of pure, non-toxic, or at least
easier-to-separate inputs and designs
The power of this fourth major lever is its
ability to enhance the impact of the first
three by rendering them ‘fit for onward use’.
Beyond the need to enhance product life and
the ability to cycle tightly and many times,
a product’s true end-of-life stage needs to
be anticipated in the choice of materials.
Currently, many post-consumption material
streams become available as mixtures of
materials, either because of the way these
materials were selected and combined in
a single product (e.g., PVC labels on PET
bottles), or because they are collected or
handled without segmentation or regard
for preserving their purity and quality (food
waste discarded via mixed municipal waste
collection, for example).
As with durables, designing fast-moving
consumer goods so they can be easily
separated into their material components is
an important contributor to enhancing the
value that can be extracted in one or more
36 | TOWARDS THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY
2. From linear to circular
Continued
Coming full circle, regeneration activities
round out a system. Preserving and
rebuilding the long-term resilience of
the agricultural system and the ‘systems
services’ provided by the larger biological
system in which agriculture is anchored
are the foundation for creating value from
these assets in the future. While biological
systems services are ‘externalities’ that
do not show up on the balance sheet
of an individual business, they do play
essential roles such as providing clean
water, pollinating crops, and decomposing
and detoxifying waste. Damage to these
services is of increasing interest to food,
textiles and beverage industries, as it can
diminish harvest yields and ultimately limit
the resilience of a business and its medium-/
long-term growth. Puma’s initiative to
publish ‘Environmental Profit and Loss’
reports show that some industry players
have started to integrate this factor in their
core strategy, and the PPR Group who own
the brand have announced they will be
extending the methodology to all of their
brands by 2015.
3
How it works up close
Examples of circular opportunities
for fast-moving consumer goods
Investigating how circular businesses can extract more value than the linear
economy in three parts of the consumer goods industry: making use of food waste
and food processing by-products, reducing the material impact of apparel without
reducing consumer choice, and getting to grips with beverage packaging.
1
38 | TOWARDS THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY
3. How it works up close
Examples of circular opportunities
for fast-moving consumer goods
To investigate how circular business models Food is an indisputably fundamental human
can provide new opportunities for growth need, and is intimately associated with
in consumer goods, we explored three identity and culture. We have chosen to
categories for evidence that this approach concentrate on two of the most problematic
can generate both incremental profits aspects of food, namely food losses in
and substantial material savings. These manufacturing and food waste at the
categories were selected for their relevance consumption stage (both in households and
as measured by the share of consumer food service) (Figure 5).
spending they represent, the resources they
use, and the waste they generate. Our question here was whether there is a way
to use circular principles to create a profitable
Food and beverages. At global sales of ~ business that values this waste. We recognise
USD 8.3 trillion per annum, including both that food waste at the agricultural level is also
fresh and packaged formats, food is the substantial and should be tackled, but it is
largest fast-moving consumer goods category. outside the scope of this report.
FIGURE 5 Main sources of food waste — manufacturing and consumption
Focus of deep dive Material waste
Per cent of total production
Developing Developed
countries countries
Agriculture 9 9
91 91
Processing 17 9
73 82
Retail 5 4
68 78
3 12
6 2803 0006 9
Consumer
SOURCE: FAO ‘Global Food Losses and Food Waste – Extent, causes and prevention’, Rome 2011;
Ellen MacArthur Foundation circular economy team
TOWARDS THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY | 39
Clothing. The second-largest category
of spend within the consumer sector is
clothing and footwear, another core human
need, accounting for sales of USD 1.8 trillion
annually. The vast majority of the clothing
industry currently operates an entirely linear
consumption model, with a large proportion
of all items ending in landfill (and—in high-
income countries—after a limited useful life
at the back of a wardrobe). The consumption
stage accounts for by far the largest share of
waste in the clothing category (Figure 6).
Here, we explored whether there are profitable
circular business models that allow for high
levels of reuse and cascading of clothing.
FIGURE 6 In clothing, waste occurs mainly at the end of life — UK clothing example
Focus of deep dive
Material waste
Per cent of total production
Processing 23
77
Manufacturing 11
65
Distribution and retail 1
64
64
6 2803 0006 9
Consumer
SOURCE: WRAP ‘Valuing Our Clothes’, 2009
40 | TOWARDS THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY
3. How it works up close
Continued
Packaging. Given its central role in the comprises a wide range of distribution
consumer goods industry, we also conducted models, packaging types, and materials
a deep-dive analysis of packaging to better (Figure 7).
understand the potential alternatives to
‘one-way’ packaging. The question here was These categories represent about 80% of
whether circular packaging models could the world’s total expenditure on fast-moving
be profitable for manufacturers, allow for consumer goods64.
a better consumer experience, and deliver
significant material savings. For each of the three areas, we first outline
whether more circularity is desirable and
To draw a meaningful comparison, we chose then discuss the evidence for 1) the viability
to study beverage packaging as it is a major of business models, 2) examples of circular
product segment (beverages account for business models already in operation today,
sales of USD 2.4 trillion annually), a large and 3) what needs to happen for larger-scale
amount of packaging material is wasted adoption of the circular business model.
(especially at the consumption stage), and
FIGURE 7 In packaging, waste occurs mainly at the end of life — Plastic bottle example
Focus of deep dive
Material waste
Per cent of total production
Manufacturing 1
99
1
Retail 3
96
2
96
6 2803 0006 9
Consumer
1 Assuming the retail beverage food waste is 60% of the overall food waste
2 This includes all packaging at end of life that will then either be recycled, incinerated or landfilled
SOURCE: FAO ‘Global Food Losses and Food Waste – Extent, causes and prevention’ Rome 2011,
Ellen MacArthur Foundation circular economy team
64 Euromonitor 2012
TOWARDS THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY | 41
1. Food and beverages At the food processing stage, we investigate
the potential for circularity in industrial food
Our analysis shows that it is possible to build processing, where losses mostly take the
profitable circular businesses that make good form of by-products—such as brewer’s spent
use of the food waste that is generated in the grains from beer production or orange peel in
consumption and food processing stages of juice production—or streams conventionally
the food and drinks value chain (Figure 8).65 considered to be entirely without value,
such as grey water resulting from screening,
At the consumption stage, we analyse filtering, and pressing. For brewer’s spent
the options to deal with the mixed food grains, more widespread cascading to feed
waste created in the later stages of the for livestock or fish, and recycling through
supply chain—in retail shops, households, anaerobic digestion could create a profit of
and food service and restaurants. For this USD 1.91 per hectolitre of beer produced.
‘consumption waste’, we estimate that in the
U.K. increasing circularity could generate After outlining current costs of food waste,
profits of USD 172 per tonne—providing a we describe methods for extracting more
significant economic opportunity for both value and realising material savings in a
municipalities and investors66. circular way, and how they might be put
into practice more widely.
FIGURE 8 Food and beverage – retail, household, and production material flows
Biological materials Food waste
Soil
Digestate
back to soil
Farmer
Case: Food
processing
Animal feed waste
Product
manufacturer
Energy
Retailer
Case:
Anaerobic digestion
Consumption
food waste
6 2803 0006 9
Consumer
Landfill and
Chemical extraction incineration
65 Complete food and SOURCE: Ellen MacArthur Foundation circular economy team
beverages lifecycle is
understood to include
agriculture, manufacture,
packaging, distribution,
retail, transport, storage
and preparation, and waste
treatment and disposal. The
focus is on households but
extends to retailers and the
hospitality sector.
66 Our estimate shows that it
could represent a USD 1.5 billion
opportunity for the UK
42 | TOWARDS THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY
3. How it works up close
Continued
Why is food waste important? that have considerable value. Take beer. The
saying that ‘beer is liquid bread’ holds a grain
While daily amounts of ‘post-consumer’ of truth: beer is typically made from cereals
waste are small, unconsumed food and drinks with a high nutrient content. Though beer does
add up to a yearly average of USD 770 per retain some nutritional value, much is filtered
U.K. household, or USD 19 billion in annual out during brewing and remains in a solid
spending in the U.K. on food and drinks that by-product known as ‘brewer’s spent grain’
could have been consumed but are instead or BSG. While BSG is relatively high in protein
discarded. In the retail segment, the average and fibre—and thus a good a feed supplement
value of a tonne of food discarded in the U.K. for animals—it also has a high moisture
due to spoilage, leakage, etc. is estimated to content and typically rots within a month.
be USD 2,700 in forgone sales value. This adds Some brewers offer BSG to local farmers, but
up to an estimated value of USD 970 million anywhere from 10 to 50% ends up in landfill.
for U.K. retailers67.
MYTH
This lost value, recently in the spotlight
Collecting food waste from
as a result of a form of activism known as
households isn’t worth the trouble
‘dumpster diving’, is only part of the story.
In the U.K., as in other developed countries,
Reality: With anaerobic digestion (AD)
most of the 8 million tonnes of annual waste
technology, a business can extract
from households plus the 4 million tonnes
benefits that far outweigh the costs
from supermarkets and restaurants go
into landfill, incurring ~USD 1,230 million in
Food waste is valuable! With anaerobic
disposal costs. Beyond the disposal charges
processing, it turns into energy and
incurred by households and businesses, many
fertiliser which can generate a value of
of the world’s cities and densely populated
~ USD 60 per tonne (see example for
areas face the risk of running out of safe
U.K. below). Separate collection can be
opportunities for landfill disposal. At the
implemented at little additional cost, as
current rates of accumulation, referred to
the overall waste volumes don’t change.
as ‘arisings’, of food and other waste, the
Diverting food waste to the AD process
U.K.’s designated landfills will be full by 2018.
has many additional indirect benefits,
Furthermore, when landfilled, food waste
such as avoiding GHG emissions in
67 Business benefits does not decompose benignly but incurs
of resource efficiency, environmental costs by emitting methane. landfill, increasing the value of the
Department for residual (non-food) waste stream in
Environment, Food & Rural Decaying food waste emits an estimated 130
Affairs, U.K., 2007, in: Waste incineration, and returning nutrients to
million tonnes of CO2e68 globally, about 0.35%
arisings in the supply of food
the soil. (For more information, see the
and drink to households, of total global GHG emissions—small but
WRAP, 2011 sidebar on anaerobic digestion.)
entirely preventable. In landfill, food waste
68 WRAP, Waste arisings in also contributes to the formation of leachate,
the supply of food and drink
to U.K. households, 2011, a cocktail of liquids that seeps from solid waste
Ellen MacArthur Circular
and can pollute surface and ground water. MYTH
Economy Team Analysis
Households cannot be
69 The hierarchy used in the
U.K. has five levels: reduce Analysing the landfill fraction that is food convinced to separate food
the amount of material used, waste at a molecular level would reveal
prepare for reuse, recycle,
recover other value, and, as the presence of the valuable soil nutrients Reality: Italy has achieved high
a last resort, dispose
nitrogen (N), phosphorus (P), and potassium
collection rates for years; most people
70 WRAP; Case studies, (K) that are the three most widely applied
respond favourably
Courtauld Commitment 2,
2012 fertilisers. Locked up in the landfill, these
71 www.save-food.org. nutrients are practically useless, while using In southern Italy, some municipal
Article title ‘EU-FUSIONS them as a part replacement for mineral collection programs for household food
project examines the entire
food chain’ fertiliser, their value would have amounted to waste were already achieving capture
~USD 67 million each year in the U.K. alone. rates close to 80% back in 2002. Once
72 SealedAir, Enhancing
Sustainability by Preventing systems are in place, public opinion is
Waste Despite the efficiency imperative, many food generally favourable.
73 Ministry of Agriculture, and beverage manufacturers’ production
Forestry and Fisheries,
processes generate biological by-products
Japan, 2010
TOWARDS THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY | 43
Avoiding food losses increased the shelf life of nearly years by grocery auctions in
and food waste 1,600 chilled products by an selling packaged food products
average of one day.70 In Norway, past their best-by date at a
Avoiding food waste should be a For-Mat is a collaborative effort by deep discount. In 2012, the
priority. Prevention has also been the government and Norwegian European Parliament called on
enshrined as the most valuable grocers aimed at establishing the European Commission to
strategy for waste in the ‘waste better data on retail-level encourage the discounted sale of
hierarchy’ (Lansink’s ladder), which food waste so as to lay a solid food close to its expiry date. In
was included in the European foundation for effective waste some geographies and situations,
Waste Framework Directive in prevention measures. On a larger however, retailers have indicated
2008, and enacted into law in the scale, the EU project FUSIONS71 that consumer acceptance
U.K. in 2011.69 It is also advocated also aims to bring together all for such products is low. An
by the U.S. Environmental contributors along the food chain alternative avenue with goodwill
Protection Agency and government to collect data and start concerted benefits has developed amongst
agencies in many other countries, efforts to avoid food waste. retailers, hospitality businesses,
from Australia to Oman. and food service companies in
Another set of methods for the form of donations to food
Current management practice increasing shelf life is ‘active and banks and pantries such as
to reduce food waste is a logical intelligent packaging’, including, Second Harvest and Die Tafel.
extension of lean production for example, packaging food in a
systems, which aim to eliminate protective atmosphere.8 Working A further solution—albeit of
all product or service features with poultry supplier Moy Park, lower value—is to process food
that do not create value that ASDA adopted new packaging waste for animal feed. In Asia,
consumers are willing to pay for. that increased shelf life from 8 to processing food waste into
In food retailing, the main source 10 days. Similarly, a new packaging animal feed is promoted to
of preventable waste is the fresh film for potatoes enabled ASDA avoid landfilling and decrease
produce department, which is to slash potato waste by 50%. dependence on imported food.
therefore the focus of constant A study by Sealed Air found that The Japanese government
efforts to stock the precise changing the supply chain for promotes the ‘Ecofeed’ initiative
quantities demanded and maximise minced meat from traditional to convert more food waste to
shelf life. Both solutions typically in-store meat grinding and animal feed as part of a move to
require optimisation of the supply packaging to grinding and increase overall self-sufficiency in
chain back to the manufacturer pre-packaging in a protective animal feed. Recycled food costs
and growers. While median atmosphere in a central facility around 50% less than regular
losses through spoilage in fresh could extend shelf life from feed.73 However, some markets,
produce are 6 – 8%, best-practice 1 to 3 days to 7 to 21 days, such as the U.K., prevent the use
retailers have pared this figure to reducing retail losses from of food waste for animal feed as
3 – 5%. Data tracking and analysis 7 – 8% to 2 – 3%.72 a precaution against the spread
play a critical role in achieving of disease. Such restrictions
results that are twice as good as Packaged fresh food that is still apply mostly to food waste
competitors’ performance. As the perfectly fit for consumption from households, supermarkets,
‘last mile’ before the consumer, often becomes harder to sell and the hospitality industry,
retailers typically have access to as the best-by date gets closer, which may contain meat, but
extensive shopping data, which especially since consumer do not apply to food processing
leading firms are using to improve confusion may exist over best- companies that can guarantee
waste avoidance. Shopping data by versus sell-by dates. In most that food waste streams are free
helps amongst other things to markets some form of active of animal by-products.
improve demand forecasts, which discounting moves these products
benefits all of the participants in off the shelf before the best-by
a given food supply chain. With date expires. In the U.S., salvage
this approach, U.K. grocery retailer grocery and dollar stores have
ASDA’s ‘Faster Fresh’ initiative been joined in the past few
44 | TOWARDS THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY
3. How it works up close
Continued
Which circular models work best
Anaerobic digestion— for food consumption waste?
A zero-waste technology
In the food and drinks sector, the biggest
Anaerobic digestion (AD) is a process in source of business value is to process food
which microbes digest organic material in waste by directing it into cascaded uses.
the absence of oxygen. The process creates
two distinct products: biogas, a mix of Critically, to extract the maximum value,
~60% methane and ~40% carbon dioxide, food needs to be collected from households,
and a liquid or solid residue, the digestate. retailers, and restaurants and food service
organisations as a separate stream, i.e., not
Biogas: To fully extract the value of the
mixed with other waste. For this, effort must
biogas created in the AD process, the
be made in advance to design product/
methane can either be used directly in
package combinations for ease of separation
a nearby industrial boiler or for district
and to avoid toxic substances.
heating purposes, burned to produce
electricity and heat in a combined heat
In some cases, specialty cascades can
and power plant (CHP), or cleaned and
be formed by segregating specific food
fed into the gas grid.
preparation by-products into a type-specific
value stream. A prominent example is
Digestate: Anaerobic digestate made
cooking oils and fats, which can be used
from food waste can be used as fertiliser
to make biofuel. This category includes
for agriculture as it has a high nutrient
frying fats, fat from oil traps, and even fat
value. In fact, AD digestate retains the
extracted from mixed food waste.74 In the
same nutrient content (NPK values) as the
U.K., companies such as Brocklesby and
ingoing food waste, and is characterised
ReFood collect food waste and frying oils
by high available nitrogen (estimated
from retailers and fast-food outlets and
at 80% for food waste digestate),
producers, and then process the fats and oils
making its effect comparable to mineral
into biodiesel feedstock. Robert Brocklesby
fertilisers. In this respect, it differs from
summarises his company’s approach quite
compost, which contains mainly slow-
simply as: ‘We look for additional value
release nitrogen. According to the IEA: ‘…
from specific food waste streams and add
digestate is a very useful organic fertiliser
further value to the chain. He also mentions
that can be used to offset the financial as
that ‘Companies increasingly expect to be
well as the environmental costs associated
paid for their waste’ as its value is being
with the use of mineral fertiliser’75. This
assessment is confirmed by Dr. Rafaella discovered.
Villa from Cranfield University: ‘The value
and the quality of what comes out of Another interesting opportunity is the
the digestate is of very high quality and extraction of specialty chemicals from
people should take more advantage food waste, such as, for example, pectin
of that’. Further research on nutrient from citrus peel. For mixed food waste, the
availability and impact is on-going, as biggest opportunity is to recover energy and
digestate also contains micronutrients not create fertiliser: the residual value of food
74 This practice is well present in commercial mineral fertiliser. can be economically ‘harvested’ for both
established in Germany Digestate can be used whole, separated purposes through the anaerobic digestion
and the Netherlands and
beginning to develop in into a liquid and solid fraction, or (AD) process (see sidebar).
the U.K. processed into pelletised organic fertiliser.
75 Utilisation of digestate These options, particularly pellets, would
from biogas plants as
make it easier to customise and distribute
biofertiliser, IEA Bioenergy
2010 digestate over long distances. Cheaper
76 Note that even if digestate technologies to process digestate into a
does not fulfil quality standardised and transportable product
standards that allow sale as
fertiliser, generally landfill are under development since current
cost is much lower than techniques are still relatively expensive
for raw waste or zero, as
digestate is classified as an and energy intensive.76
‘inactive waste’ and can even
be used as landfill cover.
TOWARDS THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY | 45
Recovering nutrients from domestic and
MYTH
industrial waste water
Burning waste is cheaper than
separating it and processing in an AD
Soil-enriching nutrients can be recovered
plant; and it’s also ‘green’ as it is an
from all types of waste water, not just from
alternative to fossil fuels
food processing. In 2001, Swiss analysts
estimated that, if we could capture 100% of
the nutrients present in global household Reality: AD is less expensive, creates
sewage, we could recover nearly 30 million more energy, and allows the extraction
tonnes of nitrogen, 5 million tonnes of of fertilising nutrients
phosphorus, and 12 million tonnes of
potassium—the all-important NPK group of In countries where municipal waste
nutrients. A more recent analysis conducted is not separated, mixed waste is
by Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial often burned in high-temperature
Research Organisation (CSIRO) in Australia incinerators to generate energy. On
found that—for a city of four million people— balance, however, separating out food
the total value of the carbon, ammonia, and waste is more economical, as separate
phosphorus recovered would be USD 300 collection can be realised at a very
million per annum. low incremental cost, and anaerobic
digestion of food waste is less expensive
Several countries have already started than incineration.77 Environmentally, AD
exploiting the potential offered by domestic is consistently found to be the better
waste water, with both governments and option for recovering energy from food
academia mainly focusing on phosphorus. waste, as it has the triple benefit of
The Netherlands is a forerunner in the field avoiding landfill emissions, generating
of phosphorus recycling and Sweden has set energy, and returning organic material
an interim target to recycle at least 60% of and fertilising nutrients to the soil. For
phosphorus compounds in sewage for use on these reasons, many countries, such
productive land by 2015. At least half of this
as the U.K., have ranked AD above
is to be used on arable land.79
composting and incineration in the
waste hierarchy for food waste.78 A
The world’s largest municipal nutrient
further factor favouring the AD solution
recovery facility80 was opened in the U.S.
is that wet organic waste, such as food
in May 2012 as a public-private partnership
waste, reduces the efficiency of modern
between Clean Water Services and Ostara
incinerators, leading to reduced energy
Nutrient Recovery Technologies, Inc., in
generation and reduced revenues.
Hillsboro, Oregon. The facility uses Ostara’s
Pearl® Nutrient Recovery Process to capture
phosphorus and nitrogen from waste water
and transform them into an environmentally
friendly, slow-release fertiliser, which is sold
locally and throughout the country. The
77 W. Edelmann, K. Schleiss,
Ökologischer, energetischer und combination of cost savings and revenue are
ökonomischer Vergleich von projected to pay for the cost of the USD
Vergärung, Kompostierung und
Verbrennung fester biogener 4.5 billion Rock Creek Nutrient Recovery
Abfallstoffe, 2001, Comissioned
Facility in six years.
by the Swiss Federal Office of
Energy and the Swiss Federal
Office for the Environment
Most of the processes employed worldwide
78 Department for Environment, recover phosphorus and nitrogen in the
Food & Rural Affairs, U.K., Waste
hierarchy form of struvite (magnesium ammonium
phosphate) and/or calcium-phosphate
79 Summary of Government Bill
2004/05: 150 available at http:// pellets. While processes exist that can recover
www.government.se/content/1/
90% of phosphorus, only a fraction (5-15%)
c6/06/69/79/80a58d03.pdf
of the nitrogen available in waste water can
80 http://www.ostara.com/news/
news-releases/2012/clean-water- be recovered through phosphate-based
services-and-ostara-nutrient- precipitates. Further technologies to recover
recovery-technologies-open-
worlds-l multiple resources need to be developed.
46 | TOWARDS THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY
3. How it works up close
Continued
What is it worth? USD 64. In addition, landfill costs of USD 105
are avoided. This is netted against a sorting
To estimate the value of processing food and processing cost of USD 43 per tonne.
waste through anaerobic digestion, we can
take two perspectives: that of a municipality The assumptions underlying this profit
dealing with a mixed stream of household calculation reflect a developed system in
and commercial waste, and that of an investor which experience has improved performance
who wants to generate and sell energy versus today’s average in the following ways:
and fertiliser. Processing food with AD is
attractive from both perspectives: it mitigates • Load factor. An important parameter in the
the problem of steeply rising landfill costs economics of an AD plant is the load factor,
burdening municipalities’ budgets and offers i.e., the time the plant operates per year.
an attractive business model (Figure 9). In We assume a 95% availability rate for very
assessing the economics, we looked at the good operations; ~90% is average. This has
full value created by: 1) avoiding the cost no impact on the revenue per tonne of food
of landfill and 2) receiving revenues from waste but reduces the processing cost by 5%.
subsidies for renewable energy
generation in a market like the U.K. • Economies of scale on component prices.
If plants are rolled out on a large scale,
Municipalities today regard organic waste operators will benefit from lower prices. We
management mostly as a cost, but it can also assumed a total reduction in investment costs
be an attractive source of revenue. In the of 25% compared with median values found in
U.K. the charge for landfill amounts to USD the U.K. today.
102 per tonne, up from USD 40 five years
ago. A similar picture arises both in low- and • Innovation. Advances in AD microbiology
high- income countries: landfilling in Brazil could allow a higher throughput. For example,
costs around USD 20 – 25 per tonne; in Schmack Biogas has developed a new
Israel, it costs USD 13 per tonne, an increase bacteria strain that can double the digestion
by a factor of five since 2007.81 In May 2012, rate.84 This would reduce the required volume
the European Parliament voted in favour of of an AD plant, reducing the estimated
legislation to reduce landfilling of organic investment by a further 25%.
waste, with the aim to reduce it to zero by
2020.82 In South Korea, landfilling bans for • Efficiency gains. General improvements
food waste went into effect in 2005.83 In in operational efficiency account for a 15%
addition to raising landfill charges, less to reduction in operating cost versus median
increase municipal revenue and more to values today.
discourage dumping of materials that can be
put to other uses, many governments have • Revenue. Here we assume that the digestate
introduced renewable energy incentives in that is currently given away to farmers for free
response to growing greenhouse gas emission can command a price equivalent to the value
rates. In the U.K., for example, AD profits of its content of NPK fertiliser nutrients of USD
from a ‘feed-in-tariff’, an incentive designed 5.60 at current wholesale prices (and allowing
to stimulate renewable energy generation for additional cost of transport to farms).
as well from a guaranteed minimum price
for supplying electricity to the grid to give The conversion of food resources from
investors security for long-term projects. We household, retail, and hospitality landfill
estimate that processing food waste with streams could represent an income stream
81 Ministry of Environmental anaerobic digestion instead of landfilling of USD 1.5 billion in the U.K., based on a total
Protection, State of Israel could create an operating profit of up to collected stream of 9 million tonnes. This
82 European Commission USD 172 per tonne of food waste. This assumes that all municipalities operate a
profit breaks down into the following value separate collection program for food waste
83 Taewan Jeon, National
Institute of Environmental components: one tonne of food waste can at the consumption level, and then manage
Research, South Korea
create electricity worth USD 26, heat worth to capture 90% of the waste volume created
84 Schmack Biogas, Methanos USD 18, and fertiliser worth USD 6. The feed-in in retail and hospitality and 70% of the food
85 National Grid: The potential tariff subsidy for renewable energy is worth waste created in households.
for renewable gas in the UK,
January 2009
TOWARDS THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY | 47
FIGURE 9 Shifting to a circular system for food waste could create profits of $172 per tonne of food waste
Profit from going from a linear system to circular1
USD per tonne of food waste, UK, 2012
Assumptions
•Large-scale AD rollout will reap 172
benefits from bulk orders and
operational efficiency gains Could be
USD 1.5 bn/year
in the UK
•New bacteria strains will increase
64
throughput
•Digestate will be sold as full
equivalent to mineral fertiliser (vs.
none today) because of increased
uptake and development of new
dewatering technologies
6 102
44
43
Sales Fertiliser Cost of Avoided Feed-in Net profit
electricity, sales processing landfill cost tariff for in a circular
heat electricity system
Revenue and cost of anaerobic digestion
1 Fertiliser: wholesale price, 2011. energy prices 2012, landfill price 2012
SOURCE: Ellen MacArthur Foundation circular economy team
What’s working well today Future Distribution Networks Manager at the
National Grid, the company has received 150
Anaerobic digestion is already in use around
inquiries for gas upgrading, which have already
the world and can be rapidly scaled up.
resulted in 14 concrete projects. The National
Grid runs about half the gas network in the
• In Germany, biomass generated 119 TWh
U.K. and currently has a target for 2020 of
electricity in 2011, around 5.2% of the country’s
producing 7 TWh from biogas.
gross power generation. Worldwide capacity
in 2011 was around 72 GW.86 In developing
countries, the biogas generated in micro-scale
AD facilities from food waste and animal MYTH
manure is widely used as a clean cooking fuel. AD is just a ‘cottage industry’
Since 1982, India has had a national program
in place to promote small-scale anaerobic
Reality: Anaerobic digestion is a
digestion for cattle manure that has resulted in
decentralised technology; professional
4 million small-scale installations as well as
operators can realise economies of scale
some large AD plants for power generation.87
Since farmers have used small-scale AD
• In the U.K., rapid scale-up has occurred in
plants for decades and many developing
the last few years, and the transition is still in
countries even have household-sized
progress. The number of anaerobic digestion
plants, AD has long had the image of
plants operating in the U.K. has rocketed
‘just a backyard solution’. While it is true
from two in 2005 to 214 in 2011 with a total
that the optimal size of an AD plant is
generating capacity of 170 MW according to a
smaller than traditional technologies
new study by WRAP88. WRAP reports that 26
(1 – 2 MW versus 1,000 MW for a large
of these plants process mainly segregated food
coal or nuclear plant), AD benefits
waste, on a commercial basis89 (the remainder
significantly from economies of scale,
process sewage, agricultural waste, sludge, and
optimised logistics, and rigorous process
industrial food and beverage production wastes
control. Investors are already rolling out
as feedstock). AD is also attracting the interest
projects for large fleets of plants. And
of investors. Tamar Energy, for example, plans
86 Statista, Biomass, Biogas in its report ‘The potential for renewable
statistics to build 44 AD plants in the U.K., with a total
gas in the UK’, National Grid points out
capacity of 100 MW by 2017.
87 Indian Ministry of New and that cleaning and injecting biogas into
Renewable Energy
the gas grid can help overcome the lack
88 WRAP: Anaerobic digestion Amongst AD plants looking at using post-
of co-location opportunities that AD
infrastructure in the U.K., 2011 consumer food streams, interest has also
operators face when looking for smaller,
89 Includes both industrial and increased in upgrading the resulting biogas and
non-industrial wastes feeding it into the gas grid. At present, only two local commercial avenues for their
energy output.
90 WRAP, Anaerobic digestion such sites are in operation in the U.K., one of
infrastructure in the U.K.:
September 2011 which is waste-fed90. According Marcus Stewart,
48 | TOWARDS THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY
3. How it works up close
Continued
How can we make it happen? Using regulation to channel food waste to
the highest-value uses. Waste management
The most important change required to build regulation governs the options for owning
a circular economy around food consumption food waste streams and extracting value. In
waste is to significantly increase collection as adapting regulation to assist the transition
a separate stream. Examples of this and every towards more circularity and hence higher
other change required to operate a profitable resource productivity, governments need
system have already been implemented to strike a balance between guiding waste
in individual regions today—including towards the highest value use and protecting
awareness and information campaigns and citizens and the environment. Successful
financial incentives and disincentives. recent examples of regulatory action include
taxes on landfill, incentives for renewable
Collecting separate streams of food waste. energy, and standards for digestate.
The main driver for high collection rates is a
convenient and simple system with door-to- Being smart about synergies and location.
door collection. High shares of food waste Optimal size and siting of AD plants are
generated by households can be captured important aspects of the economic case, as
at no significant extra cost—as trials in the is the configuration of a secure feedstock
U.K. and experience in other countries have supply and its delivery to the plant. As
shown—provided collection is well designed. AD plant economics depend on maximum
Separate food waste collection can be operating times, securing a large source
implemented at little to no additional cost of organic waste, such as from a city or
if the system is optimised, i.e., assuming the a factory, reduces the risk of downtime.
total waste volume remains roughly the same, Also, since both feedstock and digestate
different types of waste can be collected on have a high water content, transport costs
alternate trips. In the long run, the cost for are significant. Moreover, if the methane
municipalities can even be decreased.91 produced is used in a CHP plant, the heat
Experience in Italy also shows that capture needs to be used locally, suggesting co-
rates over 70% are possible within a few location with industry or a residential area
years, with the purity of the collected organic that is set up for district heating. As James
waste at around 97%.92 Russell of Tamar Energy notes, ‘AD is
essentially a logistics business’.
Separate organic waste collection is also
emerging as a commercial opportunity in Pursuing necessary technology innovation
developing countries, where comprehensive to make digestate a more versatile product.
waste collection is still rarely offered by Additional technical improvements and
municipalities and instead mainly handled by innovation are needed to realise the full
the informal sector. value of food-based digestate. To minimise
ammonia emissions, digestate needs to
Increasing consumer participation in refuse be applied with equipment that inserts it
separation schemes. Food is an emotional into the topsoil rather than on the surface.
91 In Italy, source separation subject, which creates barriers to increasing This may require a combination of local
with door-to door collection
was introduced in the mid- participation in food waste separation innovation and equipment imports from
1990s, reducing costs for many schemes. These mindset barriers range from countries where using digestate or manure
municipalities. Residential
services to provide ‘source general squeamishness about food waste slurry as a replacement for mineral fertiliser
separated organics’ (SSO)
and the misperception that separation is not is already commonplace, e.g., Germany. In
collection is now available to
24 million people in Italy in worthwhile, to ‘lack of space in the home’ for countries where farms are far from urban
more than 2,500 municipalities.
(Source: Source segregation several refuse bins to support separation. As centres, technology is needed to reduce the
of biowaste in Italy, Plastic different programmes around Europe show, water content of digestate, as dewatering
Bag Ban And Residential SSO
Diversion, Christian Garaffa and such barriers can be successfully addressed is currently uneconomical (at least when
Rhodes Yepsen)
with information campaigns, incentives, and no surplus heat is available). The current
92 Experience in southern Italy collection systems that focus on convenience economical radius for delivery of wet
shows capture rates between
38% and 78%, with a median of for households. digestate is estimated to be 30km.
57.5% in 2002) (Source: Source
segregation of biowaste in Italy,
Plastic Bag Ban And Residential
SSO Diversion, Christian Garaffa
and Rhodes Yepsen.)
TOWARDS THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY | 49
Innovative solutions around digestate
distribution are emerging, however. One Renewable energy incentives
example of convenient distribution to small around the world
farms is a cooperative in Germany that
uses AD to run two biogas plants and has In the U.K., the incentives for developing
implemented a self-service point resembling renewable energy sources play an
a petrol station where farmers can pick up important role in making AD attractive
wet digestate after identifying themselves via to investors. Anaerobic digestion plants
an RFID tag.93 with electricity generation profit from the
feed-in-tariff ‘FIT’ of USD 0.16 per kWh of
Investment requirements. The total capital electricity produced. If power is sold to
expenditure required to treat all of the food the grid, the supplier can choose to sell
consumption waste in the U.K. would be it at the market rate or at a guaranteed
around USD 1.4 billion. Assuming an average ‘export’ tariff of USD 0.07. For gas-to-
AD plant capacity of 70,000 tonnes, the U.K. grid, as well as for heat generated in
would need 136 AD plants. small-scale AD plants, the renewable heat
incentive (RHI) is available. Currently, AD
Large plants have capacities of up to plants using food waste would operate
120,000 tonnes, and digesters and CHP around the break even point without
plants are modular, making them scalable. incentives, future development will
Yet although the costs of grid connections improve this picture.
and administration favour larger plants,
technically feasible transport distances for This business model is portable to other
feedstock and digestate effectively limit countries. Incentives for renewable
plant size. This might create opportunities energy generation are now available in
for smaller players such as cooperatives. 96 countries around the world, in many
Currently, farmers cooperate on AD projects, countries in Europe, but also in China,
Brazil, Mexico, the U.S., Canada, Argentina,
but more for farm wastes, not post-consumer
Peru, and Turkey. Different mechanisms
food matter.94
exist, such as regulatory policies like feed-
in tariffs, obligatory biofuel mandates,
In the next section, we describe the
tradable renewable energy permits, and
opportunities for extracting maximum
fiscal incentives such as tax-breaks and
value from the by-products of industrial
public financing. Many countries offer a
food processing.95
range of measures.98 Municipal authorities
93 Agrokraft Streutal and investors should review the range of
How do food and beverage by-products
GmbH (http://agrokraft- renewable energy incentives offered to
streutal.de/cms/Gaerrest- cascades work?
Tankstelle.30.0.html) make sure that they are, in fact, favourable
to AD. In addition, anaerobic digestion
94 Case studies Department Valorisation of by-products within the food
for Environment, Food projects are also eligible for credits in the
& Rural Affairs, U.K. , and beverage industries is well established
Anaerobic digestion Clean Development Mechanism (CDM)
in sub-segments but further efforts could
strategic action plan under the Kyoto Protocol.99
lead to even greater material savings. For
95 The further benefits
of fully adopting circular example, the beer industry has found ways to
solutions for post-consumer capture the economic value of by-products
food waste and food
processing by-produces are and generate significant material savings.
discussed in Chapter 4.
Along with beer, breweries (like distilleries
96 U.K. Department of and wineries) produce a large volume of by-
Energy and Climate Change,
2012. For plants of 500 kW- products in liquid and solid form. The main
5MW generation capacity by-products and process wastes in beer-
97 REN21 Renewables making with an economic value are spent
2011 Global Status Report,
grains, yeast, and grey water. While highly
REN21, 2011
dependent on local circumstances, analysis
98 KPMG, Taxes and
incentives for renewable shows that, in Brazil, extracting the maximum
energy, 2012 value from the solid by-products could
99 Intergovernmental Panel potentially generate an additional profit of
on Climate Change (IPCC),
USD 2 per hectolitre of beer produced on
2006
50 | TOWARDS THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY
3. How it works up close
Continued
top of the margin for the beer itself which Brewer’s spent grains (BSG): A valuable
ranges from USD 10 to USD 40 per hectolitre brewing by-product for cascading. Every
of production. The following overview of litre of beer produced generates roughly
opportunities for cascaded uses, primarily a small teacup of brewer’s grains (0.14 to
animal feed, and returning nutrients to the 0.2 kg), accounting for more than 90% (dry
soil is relevant to most food processing weight) of the solid waste arising during the
by-products. brewing process. This currently adds up to
39 million tonnes globally. BSG contains a
Water use can be reduced and grey water relatively high proportion of nutrients and is
used to make biogas. Depending on the available in relatively large quantities. These
method and the brewery’s efficiency, characteristics give BSG an economic value
breweries typically use 4 to 10 litres of that is worth extracting in a cascade to
water to produce a litre of beer. In Brazil, another industry, primarily as animal feed or
this adds up to an estimated total of 69 fish food.
million cubic meters (m3) of water per
year; the global total is nearly 1,200 million Feed and food production (e.g., livestock
m3. Current industry estimates indicate feed, fish farming feed). BSG is valuable
that using best practices in production for its relatively high protein content (25%
can reduce this volume by up to 15%. For on a dry matter basis), which among the
example, the Jaguariuna brewery in São commonly used feed is second only to soy
Paulo, Brazil, implemented a programme beans (38% on a dry matter basis). It also has
to optimise utilisation of water across all high starch content and is a source of fibre
steps of the production process, resulting and other nutrients. BSG is a readily available
in a 9% reduction in water use from 2007 and cheap source of proteins for farmers
to 2009.100 Breweries use water in two main who generally pick up brewer’s grains in wet
ways: to wash bottles, which results in form directly at the breweries. Anna-Maria
wash water that contains almost no organic Smet, Director of Regulatory Affairs at The
components, and to make beer, i.e., water Brewers of Europe, an industry association
used as part of the filtering, screening, and representing more than 80% of the brewery
pressing steps. This process water contains sector, says ‘there will always be some
nitrogen, potassium, and phosphorus from farmers knocking at the door of breweries to
the grain and hops feedstocks. This means feed their animals with these grains’.
that, in addition to changing the way water
is used from the start, brewers can send the In addition to dairy cattle and hogs, a new
unavoidable process water to an anaerobic animal feed cascade for BSG could be
digestion plant, rather than simply treating opening up in commercial fish farming. The
and releasing it as treated effluent. In an AD largest of these operations by sales are in
plant, the biological materials in the waste Asia and actively searching for plant-based
water can be collected and used to generate substitutes for animal protein in the food
heat and electricity from methane, either for that they feed their fish. BSG is a suitable
internal use, hence reducing the brewer’s supplement for a number of such fish, e.g.,
energy bill, or sold to a third party. tilapia, catfish, trout, and carp. Arjen Roem,
Senior Project Manager at Nutreco, estimates
Oberon FMR—a private Colorado-based that BSG could account for 2 – 5% of the
early-stage company—has developed a fish food mix by replacing a blend of corn,
technology that converts nutrients in the wheat, and soya.101 A majority of the BSG
waste-water streams of food and beverage produced in Asia could be used locally when
plants into high-quality protein meal (60% products are targeted more towards fish
protein and only 2% fibre content on a dry feed applications. Arjen Roem sees potential
matter basis) for the animal nutrition market. particularly in tilapia and catfish, which are
The innovation is said to cut the costs of projected to be the fastest growers in the fish
dewatering and disposal, as well as reduce farm industry, in Asia but also Latin America
the electric power bill typical at food and and Africa. The farming of these species is
100 Report on drinks companies for aerating waste water, forecasted to have a global compound annual
environment and utilities
sustainability, Worldwide which is full of organic matter. growth rate of 9 and 12% respectively from
brewing alliance ((2008-
2009)) 2010 to 2020.
TOWARDS THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY | 51
For both types of animal feed cascades, Director of Corporate Affairs at SABMiller.
participants of that value chain in Brazil could But as is described below, there are a number
earn an estimated additional profit of USD of further generic prerequisites for a faster
1.90 – 2.00 per tonne of BSG on top of their uptake of circular models in the food and
margin for the beer itself. beverage sector. Industry associations as well
as government agriculture extension services
Energy and fertiliser/compost production and industry regulatory bodies could play an
through anaerobic digestion. Although these important role in creating these conditions.
applications have a lower value than animal
feed, BSG is well suited to producing energy • Awareness building. Many solutions in
because of its relatively high carbohydrate use today already reflect circular principles,
content and high methane productivity. BSG but further awareness building would
produces 0.4 m3 of methane per kilo of dry certainly enlarge the room for action. In
matter whereas cattle manure produces only the view of SABMiller’s Dave Johnstone,
0.2 to 0.3 m3 per kilo of dry matter. BSG also while price differences across regions and
has relatively high values for NPK (nitrogen, seasons are massive—he cites the highest
phosphorous, and potassium) that are not prices at 15 times the typical minimum— the
altered during the anaerobic digestion price of BSG ‘will go up in a sophisticated
process and can therefore be returned to the agricultural environment’. This is because, as
soil as a fertiliser. The additional profit from Johnstone puts it, ‘a lot of BSG value resides
these applications is estimated to be USD in the ability of brewers to understand their
0.10 per tonne—this profit does not include environment and what the real market value
renewable energy subsidies.102 of BSG is’—value driven by both globally
traded feed grains, energy sources and other
How can we expand these local circumstances. In some markets (e.g.,
cascades/circular solutions? Europe, India), players already recognise
BSG’s value. According to Johnstone, with
The food and beverage industry can some knowledge of BSG value and the local
capture the value of production losses and dynamics, some breweries have managed
by-products by harnessing the power of to step change the value generated from
cascades, seeking out the most valuable these streams. Awareness building could
applications in each case. Part of the be reinforced by landfill disincentives that
potential for cascading BSG before sending discourage outright waste or, preferably, by
it to anaerobic digestion is already being incentives to encourage alternative uses.
exploited. Even though the market is
fragmented and not uniformly documented, • Innovation. Finding new technologies and
research indicates that large brewers already applications for wastes and by-products of
sell 50 – 95% of their BSG to third parties the food and beverage industries is a key
(farmers or brokers) who then use or sell enabler in the value capture process, as
it as feed for livestock. Amongst small and illustrated by the potential value of Professor
micro-breweries, the practice appears to be Clark’s microwave process that dramatically
less common. Indeed, the situation is highly improves the extraction of essential oils from
dependent on local factors. While Andy orange peel (see sidebar on the bio-refinery).
Wood, Chief Executive of Adnams brewery
in the U.K., says that ‘giving BSG to animal • Collaboration among companies within
101 Nutreco is a publically
farms is a standard practice’, Dave Johnstone, the value chain. New partnerships among
traded Dutch company
producing fish feed for the Sustainable Development Manager at businesses may be needed in order to
fish farming industry. Nutreco
has 100 production facilities SABMiller says that in some countries, manage currently wasted resources and use
and 8 research centres in although BSG is not usually wasted, often them in a valuable way. For example, several
more than 30 countries)
only a small share of its potential value food and beverage production sites could
102 There are no subsidies for
is captured. form a cooperative partnership to share
anaerobic digestion in Brazil,
only the facilitation of access transport costs to bring food-based materials
to credit. In other countries,
such as the U.K., subsidies for In some parts of the world ‘an improvement to farmers or, in the case of BSG, sharing
anaerobic digestion can be of the situation would require better the costs of a service or infrastructure to
up to USD 3.2 per hectolitre
of beer produced due to the infrastructures’ (e.g., availability of trucks, dry the grains for shipment to fish feed
feed-in tariff on the energy
good roads) explains Gabor Garamszegi, manufacturers. Valorising waste usually
produced
52 | TOWARDS THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY
3. How it works up close
Continued
The bio-refinery—The workhorse industry as a fragrance and by chemical commodities such as
of the future the electronics industry as a cymene, all of which have the
degreasing solvent. After extraction advantage of being bio-derived.
In the future, food waste—especially of limonene, the peel waste can be Professor Clark says: ‘The by-
from the supply chain—and other fermented to generate bio-ethanol, product of the juicing industry has
organic materials will be processed as a new facility in Valencia, Spain, the potential to provide a range
in a bio-refinery, a concept that is demonstrates.104 The residue can of compounds, offering a more
expected to be an important building then be pressed into citrus peel profitable and environmentally
block for a bio-based economy. This pellets and fed to animals. The high valuable alternative to current
is especially relevant for pure waste value of the essential oils as well as waste use practices. We are
streams that are typically found in the high concentration of orange seeking to do this by harnessing
manufacturing processes. peel waste at juice production plants the chemical potential of food
makes orange peel valorisation supply chain waste using green
In many ways bio-refineries will commercially attractive, with a chemical technologies and use
emulate today’s conventional current price per tonne of USD 400. nature’s own functionalities to
petroleum refinery. Instead of using We expect current processes to obtain sought-after properties in
a fossil feedstock, a bio-refinery will become more efficient, which will everyday products.
process organic material, such as allow companies to profitably exploit
agricultural residue and food waste smaller waste volumes and expand Another large pure waste stream
into chemicals and fuels, using a the scope of bio-refining to different that could be commercially
range of physical, chemical, and types of organic waste that contain exploited is used coffee grounds.
biological technologies. From the small quantities of highly valuable A study commissioned by
organic feedstock, the bio-refinery chemicals such as polyphenols Starbucks Hong Kong showed
will extract high-value chemicals, such from grapes. A recent example of that the company could bio-refine
as those for cosmetics or medical such an innovation for orange peel its 5000 tonnes of coffee grounds
purposes. A well-designed refinery processing is a one-step microwave (and uneaten pastries) every year
will not only extract these high-value treatment currently being developed into bio-based chemicals and
components but also fuels like ethanol by Professor James Clark and Lucie intermediates, especially succinic
and methane and a set of ‘platform Pfalzgraff of York University’s Green acid, a key component of
molecules’ such as succinic acid, Chemistry Centre of Excellence bio-plastics and a valuable
which can be processed further into in the University’s Department of platform molecule.
bio-plastics and many other products. Chemistry (U.K.). This scalable and
flexible process could be used to Further technological development
Such full-fledged ‘second-generation’ extract pectin and essential oil is needed to allow commercial
bio-refineries that are able to create from orange peel much faster, less processing of cellulose-rich
multiple products from a single expensively, and without the need material. Processing technology
feedstock—analogous to today’s for additional process chemicals. for cellulose material would allow
crude oil refinery—are now starting to companies to address a much
operate at commercial scale for wood Professor Clark has established wider range of plant material such
biomass—Processum in Sweden and a programme to examine ways as agricultural waste. An important
Borregaard in Norway are examples. of extracting value from orange step to commercialisation will be
Similar plants for a broader set of peel using safe and sustainable the first large-scale bio-refinery
feedstocks, including food processing chemistry. Christened the Orange constructed with the help of
waste—and in third-generation plants Peel Exploitation Company a EUR 199 million grant under
even multiple feedstocks— is therefore (OPEC), the project is a partnership the European Union financing
not mere ‘wishful thinking’. between researchers from York, the mechanism NER300 by a
University of Sao Paulo, Brazil and consortium consisting of BioMCN,
Orange peel illustrates how a bio- the University of Cordoba, Spain. Siemens, Linde and Visser & Smit
refinery can extract value from a OPEC will target products such as Hanab. This project will produce
food processing by-product. The the widely used additive in domestic chemicals and biofuels from wood
peel contains essential oils, from products d-limonene, pectin, and biomass via gasification to syngas.
which the chemical limonene can be mesoporous carbons that can be
extracted for use by the cosmetics used as water purifiers, as well as
TOWARDS THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY | 53
requires entrepreneurial flexibility, are increasingly under pressure from volatile
as commercial opportunities often exist and rising input prices. While a few circular
outside traditional core business activities. clothing initiatives exist, they are still small
It would not necessarily be a priority for a relative to the large volume that clothing
business in the brewing industry to diversify represents globally.
into hydroponics.
Why is clothing waste a problem?
Further opportunities for cascading food
processing by-products Clothing is a good choice to test the viability
of circular business models in consumer
Like brewing, most food processing products, as it is a large sector, measured
generates by-products that can have a value by both expenditure and resource use. Total
in other industries. We illustrate this with annual global consumption amounts to
a few further examples. Plant-based food USD 1.4 trillion or an estimated 91 billion
by-products have well-established valuable garments sold. In the U.K., consumers spend
103 Qmilch® website,
www.milkotex.com applications, such as Caudalie, a French USD 63 billion (representing 5% of total
company using grape skins as a source of consumer expenditure) on the purchase of
104 ‘Citrofuel -
Demonstration project phenols. Also the Guigan sugarcane company 1.8 billion garments annually (an average of
on a new process for in China finding a market for all of its by- 30 garments per capita).105
second-generation bio
fuel production: bio products and waste streams: bagasse into
ethanol from citrus flesh’,
European Commission the paper industry, molasses into alcohol Clothing currently accounts for a considerable
article, LIFE09 ENV/ production, and its filter sludge as an amount of waste in the form of garments that
ES/000433
alternative fuel into the cement industry. are discarded at end of use:
105 Euromonitor clothing Animal by-products also supply ingredients
statistics, 2012 ; Wrap,
‘Valuing Our Clothes’, 2012 to many chemical, pharmaceutical, and • Across Europe and North America, huge
106 Euromonitor personal care products industries. A quantities of clothing are discarded and end
clothing statistics, 2012; traditional example is the cascaded use up in landfill. We estimate this to be 15 million
SMART association; EPA,
Municipal Solid Waste of milk by-products to make casein glue, tonnes annually.106
Generation, Recycling, which was once used extensively in the
and Disposal in the United
States, 2010; European woodworking industry. The latest milk- • Even in the U.K., where collection rates of
Commission, Recycling
Textiles Project (http:// based innovation is a stunningly sleek new used clothes are as high as 65%,107 close to half
ec.europa.eu/research/ fibre made from milk residues and known as a million tonnes of clothing is sent to landfill
growth/gcc/projects/
recycling-textiles.html) Qmilch®. It was put on the market in 2011 by or incinerated each year.108
microbiologist and fashion designer Anke
107 WRAP, ‘Valuing Our
Clothes’, 2012 Domaske. The fibre not only has a smoother • In other countries, a higher proportion of
108 It is estimated surface structure than either wool or cotton, clothing is sent to landfills—only 15% of end-
that 31% of end-of-use it also offers hypoallergenic, antibacterial, of-use clothing is currently collected in the
c
u
l
p
o t
in
h in
la
g
n d
in
fi
t
ll
h
s
e
a
U
nd
.K
7
.
%
en ds
and moisturising properties. The fibres are U.S.109 and only 25% in Europe overall.110
in incineration – WRAP, created by heating casein powder derived
‘Valuing Our Clothes, 2012
from non-food-grade milk and liquid spun Besides discarded clothing, there is an
109 EPA, Municipal
Solid Waste Generation, off in cheese centrifuges, i.e., from biological enormous amount of wastage-in-use.
Recycling, and Disposal in materials that are wholesome but would Consumers regularly buy clothing that they
the United States, 2010;
SMART association otherwise be thrown away, and refined with rarely use, typically because it no longer
beeswax, but not with artificial additives meets their needs in terms of fit, fashion, or
110 European Commission,
Recycling Textiles Project such as optical brighteners.103 taste.111 WRAP estimates that U.K. consumers
(http://ec.europa.eu/
research/growth/gcc/ have around USD 50 billion worth of clothing
projects/recycling-textiles. 2. Clothing hanging in their wardrobes that hasn’t been
html)
worn for a year or more.112
111 According to WRAP’s Expanding the adoption of circular solutions
2012 survey as part of
‘Valuing Our Clothes’, 77% for clothing is a significant opportunity, both The amount of waste globally is expected to
of adults who had not
worn some of their clothes to create new profitable businesses and to increase not only as a function of population
in the past year cited ‘no reduce the use of virgin materials. Clothing is growth but also as incomes rise in emerging
longer suitable’ including
fit, style and fashion as a a large sector characterised almost exclusively markets and the world’s new consumers
reason the clothing has by linear consumption models that produce adopt the trend towards ‘disposable clothing’
gone unused
considerable landfill or simply leave apparel or ‘fast fashion’.
112 WRAP, Valuing Our
Clothes, 2012 unused. At the same time, producers’ profits
54 | TOWARDS THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY
3. How it works up close
Continued
FIGURE 10 Clothing: Current collection and sorting practices prove a profitable circular business model
Revenue from end-of-life clothing Percent in Net operating profit from clothing and
USD per tonne of end-of-life a standard processing end-of-life clothing
clothing collected collection USD per tonne of end-of-life clothing
collected, UK
Reuse 1,975 290
(export)1 920 52
330
Reuse
domestic 900 21 60 1,295
Wipers 135 8
Shreds 20 14
Total 1,975 952
Revenue Collection Sorting Other Net
treatment3operating
profit
1 Includes all reuse within the system (e.g. those collected by charity shops, sold through eBay and other second hand stores, given informally
to friends and relatives), not only the clothing collected by processors which is reused in the UK
2 5% of collected clothes and up in landfill
3 Includes the cost of cutting cloth into wipers but excludes shredding costs (shreds are assumed to be sold as fibre to a cutting mill). Also includes,
baling cost for all material and disposing costs for material which is sent to landfill
SOURCE: WRAP ‘Valuing Our Clothes’ 2012, WRAP ‘Textile Flow and Market Development Opportunities’ 2012,
Expert Interviews; Ellen MacArthur Foundation circular economy team
From a business perspective, as demand be cascaded into other industries to be used
for clothing inputs rises and manufacturers as wipers, stuffing or insulation and, finally,
push the efficiency of their linear production to decomposition into compost for return to
systems, clothing producers are increasingly the soil.
vulnerable to volatile input costs. Meanwhile,
average global clothing prices have Optimising the end-of-life
decreased 2% from 2006 to 2011 from flow for clothing
USD 15.2 per garment to 14.9.113 Rising costs
and eroding retail prices has resulted in Increasing global collection rates to U.K.
a price-cost squeeze for manufacturers, levels. The first step towards a circular model
leading to price wars among competitors for clothing is to dramatically increase the
and a ruinous ‘race to the bottom’. collection and reuse of garments at the
end of life. This clothing stream has huge
Which circular business models potential to create economic value, for
work best for clothing? manufacturers, retailers, and consumers. We
have explored multiple ways to extract value
We believe that profitable business models from clothing that is currently thrown away,
that reflect circularity principles can be in direct reuse of clothing; in mechanical
expanded in two main areas: 1) optimising the and chemical reprocessing to create new
end-of-use flow and 2) creating radical new textiles without using virgin materials; and
collaborative consumption models. These re-purposing clothing to make secondary
build primarily on the power of the first products such as cleaning cloths (rags and
two circles—the inner circle, which we refer wipers) and insulation.
to with the shorthand ‘reuse’, and circling
113 Euromonitor clothing longer, which we refer to as ‘recycling’. When a tonne of textiles is collected in the
statistics, 2012
They are also complemented by the power U.K., it is used for four main applications:
114 WRAP, Valuing Our Clothes,
of cascading and purity circles, as clothing U.K. reuse (21%), export reuse (52%),
2012; WRAP, Textile Flows
and Market Development that reaches its end-of-use and cannot be cleaning rags or wipers (8%), and shreds
Opportunities in the U.K., 2012;
Expert interviews reused as clothing or recycled into yarn can (14%).114% Shreds is a clothing industry
TOWARDS THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY | 55
FIGURE 11 Clothing: Further increasing circularity through greater collection and closed-loop recycling, both mechanical and chemical
End-of-life material flows for Europe and North America Percentage of total end-of-life clothing weight
Status quo Advanced scenario
Garment Garment
Mechanical
recycling3
Chemical
recycling2
6 2803 0006 9 6 2803 0006 9
Consumer Consumer
Stuffing,
insulation,
wipers
15 56
Reuse1
6 2803 0006 9 6 2803 0006 9
Consumer Consumer
20 75
4 15
80 25
Landfill and Landfill and
incineration incineration
Note: All fibres treated as technical materials since most dyes and coatings used today mean that even natural fibres cannot be returned to the soil
1 Includes both domestic reuse within the UK and reuse exported abroad
2 Describes process to depolymerise and repolymerise fibres to create new fibres of similar quality to virgin production. Minimal chemical recycling
currently of polyester (Teijin) in Japan and nylon (e.g., Aquafil)
3 Describes process to shred and card fibres, then make new yarns and clothing (e.g., Marks & Spencer ‘shwopped coat’)
SOURCE: WRAP ‘Valuing our clothes’ 2012; WRAP ‘Textile Flow and Market Development Opportunities 2012,
Ellen MacArthur Foundation circular economy team
term for unravelled or chopped textiles, U.K collection rates are relatively high
which are then used to create new yarn compared to the rest of Europe and North
through mechanical recycling, stuffing for America, and the first step should be to
furniture and mattresses, and as insulation in dramatically increase the collection and
homes and cars. These flows represent the reuse of clothing across those regions. Lifting
destinations of all clothing which reaches the collection rates in North America and Europe
end of its use with a consumer in the U.K., to same level as in the U.K. would generate
including items collected through charity a total of 14 million tonnes of end-of-use
shops, textile banks, resold online, informally clothing annually or a global profit pool of
traded amongst friends or relatives. USD 26 billion. It must be noted that the
acquisition cost for textiles is often zero as
If sold at current prices across the four people donate clothes. However, this could
usage streams, a tonne of collected and change in the future as we have seen in other
sorted clothing can generate revenues of industries where end-of-life products become
close to USD 2,000. After subtraction of the valuable as more options emerge to re-apply
costs of commercial collection and sorting them (Figure 11).
of USD 680, the profit potential is around
USD 1, 300 per tonne 115,116 (Figure 10). Critically, this shift will also dramatically
reduce the use of virgin material in the
The potential revenue pool in the U.K. with clothing industry as well as the cascaded-
a current collection rate of 65% is USD 1.4 use industries, thereby relieving pressure
billion. Making such reuse and reprocessing a on agricultural inputs, such as cotton, and
115 WRAP, Valuing Our Clothes, mainstream part of the clothing value chain fossilised carbon inputs, such as petroleum,
2012; WRAP, Textile Flows
translates into less expensive material inputs which is a key input for polyester. A collection
and Market Development
Opportunities in the U.K., for retailers and manufacturers, and (assuming rate of 65% in the U.K. currently generates
2012; Expert interviews
that competition will result in a certain pass- USD 3 billion in material savings annually.
116 Operating profit does not through of the savings to shoppers) less Moving collection rates in Europe and North
include capital costs and only
the variable costs associated expensive clothing for consumers. America to match the U.K. at 65% adds up to
with collecting, sorting and
cutting textiles
56 | TOWARDS THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY
3. How it works up close
Continued
USD 35 billion in material savings or nearly Going further—Circularity by intention
61% of the current material costs associated It is interesting to look at what can be
with European and North American clothing done with existing textile material flows
consumption. Globally, the material savings to improve their circularity—it is perhaps
could total USD 71 billion.117 more interesting still to begin to look at
the opportunities posed by designing
High collection rates are only economical if materials and products intentionally for a
each collection includes a sufficient quantity circular economy. If we know that we would
of directly reusable clothing; this is the ultimately like to have a regenerative
stream that commands a higher price and textiles economy then how might we
drives the profit of the industry. For example, re-think product design to enable this?
clothing for export commands a price of
USD 1,700 per tonne, whereas the price An example of this is new chemical recycling
for shreds is USD 140 per tonne. Against a technologies that offer the promise of
collection and sorting price of USD 600, it closing the loop on recycling systems. Unlike
is uneconomical to collect and sort clothing mechanical recycling, chemical recycling
if the only output is of ‘shred quality’. maintains fibre quality throughout the
Therefore, to achieve these high collection recycling process, which means that the
rates and corresponding projected value, it is waste from one T-shirt can be used to make a
critical that the ‘cream’ or highest-value end- new T-shirt of the same quality. In a scenario
of-use clothing is not skimmed away from the that increases world-wide collection rates
rest. Collections that encourage consumers to 75%, or slightly more than current paper
to only give ‘like-new’ items and discourage recycling rates,119 and 9% of the textiles
any items that show signs of wear diminish collected is processed through chemical
the industry’s ability to process the full recycling, material cost savings increase
volume of end-of-use clothing economically. from USD 35 billion to USD 41 billion for
North American and European clothing
consumption.
MYTH
Only ‘gently worn’ or like-new clothing Chemical recycling is still advancing, but
is useful to donate; the rest is rubbish is already a reality today. One example is
the Common Threads clothing initiative
started by Patagonia, a California-based
Reality: Most used textiles still
outdoor clothing company. As one part of
have value.
the initiative, it recycles polyester clothing
chemically in partnership with Teijin in Japan.
In fact, of all the used clothing that is
The material originates and is returned to
actually collected, only 5% ends up
Japan where it is re-made into new fibres for
in landfill.118 Used textiles that are not
new Patagonia garments. As Rick Ridgeway,
reused domestically, or exported for
VP Environment Initiatives at Patagonia,
reuse in emerging markets, are cut into
explains: ‘clothes go in and clothes go out’.
wiper cloths for industrial cleaning or
The chemical recycling step is only taken
shredded for further use as furniture
after the garments have cycled through
stuffing, mattress stuffing, and car
re-use and have no remaining useful life
insulation. Scraps can even be recycled
as clothing. Aquafil, based in Trento, Italy,
into new yarns to make new clothing.
and a recognized leader in nylon research
and production, has developed a process
117 Collection rates outside of to chemically recycle nylon that achieves
Europe and North America are the same quality of fibre as through virgin
assumed to be at U.K. rates
already based on anecdotal production. According to CEO Giulio Bonazzi,
evidence – Expert interviews
the process reduces the environmental
118 SMART Association impact of nylon production by 50 – 80%
119 Current rate of paper compared with virgin production and is
recycling in the U.S. is 72% - economically competitive.
EPA, Municipal Solid Waste
Generation, Recycling, and
Disposal in the United States,
2010
TOWARDS THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY | 57
In a recent development, Worn Again, a ensure that the chemicals degrade
zero-waste textile company based in the and do not persist in the soil. When PUMA
U.K., has started using a process to separate took on the challenge of designing for full
cotton from polyester and recycle the recyclablility and biodegradability, it
fibres into cellulose to be used in viscose (a required changes to materials, pigments,
natural fibre) and polyester. Only 0.1% of the and manufacturing.
fibre is lost in the process and there is no
shortening of fibre lengths or reduction in Another example is provided by Switzerland-
quality, typical drawbacks of mechanical fibre based Rohner—maker of ‘Climatex Lifecycle’,
recycling. In addition, tests to date indicate a synthetic fabric ‘safe enough to eat’—who
that this process can return polyester to use describes the arduous and instructive process
not only ‘economically’ but at the price of of developing the fabric on its website.
conventional polyester, i.e., competitively. Most suppliers were reluctant to reveal the
ingredients in their dyeing and finishing
processes, and Rohner had to winnow down
MYTH
the list of possible dyes from 4,500 to just 16
Natural fibres like cotton are the most
that were appropriate for the fibres.
environmentally friendly choice and oil-
based synthetics, for example polyester,
In addition to innovation in dyes, the goal of
should be avoided
biodegradability will also require innovation
in finishes such as fire retardants added to
cascade products (stuffing and insulation)
Reality: Natural fibres can have a
and some clothing to ensure that the fibres
worse impact on the environment than
can return to the earth, replenishing the soil
synthetic blends.
without contamination.
According to analysis by WRAP, a tonne
of cotton has a footprint of 28 tonnes of An important source of economic value in
CO
2
e and 3,100m3 of water. Polyester’s the clothing reuse model comes from the
footprint is 21 tonnes of CO
2
e and 80m3 durability and reuse of garments, which
of water. Plus, polyester can potentially often depends on blended fibres. Given this
be chemically recycled to produce fibres value, the critical activity is to collect as
of virgin production quality, cycling much textile material as possible and extend
indefinitely. In contrast, natural fibres are its useful life in the tightest circle possible—
currently mechanically recycled, which through reuse and then cascade.
results in a shorter, lower-quality fibre
that can only cycle a few times before In future, it may be possible to achieve the
the quality deteriorates too much for ideal of keeping biological and technical
further use in making fabric. materials separated, either by making
fibres equally durable using biodegradable
materials or by developing technologies that
allow the fibres to be separated at their end-
Regeneration of soils in end-of-life of-life (Figure 12).
clothing optimisation
In addition, an analysis of the nutrient value
The circular economy creates value through of cotton shows that the majority of nutrients
defined, separate, technical and biological are held in the cotton plant rather than
material flows. In this way, the nutrients the buds used to make fibres. Recovering
embodied in biological materials can be nutrients in cotton lint either from textile
returned to the food and farming systems to waste water or end-of-use textiles yields
regenerate the soil at the end of a cascade. only 0.1 million tonnes of N, P, K, which is
An example is PUMA’s InCycle™: a new line of less than 0.5% of current consumption of
biodegradable or recyclable shoes, clothes chemical fertilizer.
and apparel, all Cradle-to-Cradle™ certified.
Companies that design fabrics for Patagonia’s Common Threads initiative takes
biodegradability must design each chemical a similar tack. The initiative currently focuses
treatment stage (e.g., dyes and finishes) to on the hierarchy stages reduce, repair, reuse
58 | TOWARDS THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY
3. How it works up close
Continued
FIGURE 12 Clothing: In the ideal state, biological and technical materials should
be kept separate or separated at end of life using new technologies
End-of-life material pathways for biological and technical products
Cotton Polyester Pollycotton
Compost
Soil/material Soil/material Soil/material
extraction extraction extraction
Chemical Chemical Chemical
recycling recycling recycling
Textile production Textile production Textile production
Manufacturing Manufacturing Manufacturing
Cascade
Distribution Distribution Distribution
and sales and sales and sales
Reuse Reuse Reuse
6 2803 0006 9 6 2803 0006 9 6 2803 0006 9
Consumer Consumer Consumer
Maintain separation throughout use: Maintain separation throughout use: End-of-life separation: Blended
Natural fibres (e.g. cotton) are kept pure Polyester is kept pure and, through fibres are processed at the end of life
in each cycle including ensuring dyes and the chemical process, is returned to to separate polyester and cotton to
coatings used in cascades are non-toxic the same quality as virgin polyester produce new polyester and cellulose
and can be reurned to the earth for use in new production (e.g, Teijin used in the production of viscose
(e.g. Climatex Lifecycle) technology) (e.g, Worn Again technology)
SOURCE: Ellen MacArthur Foundation circular economy team
TOWARDS THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY | 59
and recycle. Biodegradability is not included • Formal wear rentals, particularly men’s
to make sure that products can be used in wedding attire, have a long history and have
their original form as long as possible. Nellie been joined by other new-clothing rental
Cohen of Common Threads at Patagonia models, mainly for one-off hire and expensive
explains: ‘If you own one jacket that lasts, items. In the U.K., ‘Girl Meets Dress’ provides
that’s better than three that don’t. I think we’d one-off rental of formal wear and clothing
have concerns about the potential sacrifices in for socialising; one counterpart in the U.S. is
quality in designing for biodegradability’. ‘Rent the Runway’, which offers designer-label
garments. For handbags, there is ‘Fashion
Radically new models for Hire’ in the U.K. and ‘Bag, Borrow or Steal’ in
collaborative consumption. the U.S. The basic business model is also well
established for other infrequently used items:
In addition to greater collection, we have also ski hire has always been available at the slopes,
explored new models that aim to productively skates at the ice or roller rink, bowling and golf
utilise the in-use surplus lurking in many shoes, and so on. Unsurprisingly, rental models
wardrobes in what investment analyst Mary for maternity wear have also joined this line-up,
Meeker calls an ‘asset-heavy world’.120 This e.g., ‘Love Your Bump’.
idea has already reached clothing and can be
extended with a radical new business model New models are emerging online that
to offer everyday clothing for hire , allowing demonstrate the lack of apparent stigma and
consumers to easily ‘swap’ clothing whenever willingness to exchange used clothing, much
they desire variety, need a different size, as many consumers have done informally
wear out a garment, or for any other reason amongst friends and family. One example is
that previously would have led to clothing ASOS Marketplace, an extension of the new-
being discarded or left unworn at home. clothing lines of U.K.-based retail and ‘fashion
The rent-a-garment approach not only has destination’ ASOS. The Marketplace operates
potential to be a profitable business, it also internationally and provides a channel for
offers more benefits to a certain segment of consumers to resell their used clothing as well
consumers by giving them access to a much as for small new fashion businesses to reach
wider range of clothing and the ability to ASOS’s large consumer audience.122
eradicate their ‘mistaken’ choices quickly and
conveniently. While this example might seem Other established sites selling used everyday
very innovative, it serves as stimulus to think and dress-up clothing are mainly focused
creatively. Consumer research would of course on the U.S. and include Twice, Poshmark,
be needed to better understand consumers’ Threadflip (planning to expand to international
acceptance. sales), which target mainly women’s clothing,
and ThredUP, which target mainly children’s
Precedents for everyday clothing-for-hire. clothing.
A wide-scale rental model for clothing
builds on current market trends towards Online retail has increased rapidly across
‘collaborative’ living and consumer insights: multiple categories, accompanied by huge
investments in front-end systems and logistics.
• Rental models in general are clearly on the It is now easy for consumers to review and
1 In 2 t 0 e r M n a e r t y T M re e n e d k s e ( r, U 2 p 0 d 1 a 2 t e), rise. Perhaps the best-known example today choose the right products, and for products
2012 is Zipcar in North America, which gives users to be delivered to their homes, nearby stores
121 Forbes, Zipcar Revs access to short-term hourly car rentals. Zipcar or other collection/drop-off locations—and in
Up Membership Growth, membership grew from 200,000 to 500,000 some cases— the handling of returns. These
Stock Cruising to $27,
2011 in only three months in 2011, and is expected service enhancements are rapidly changing the
122 According to ASOS, to increase to 2 million by 2020.121 entire retail landscape in developed markets.
80% of sellers are
individuals using the site
as a way to monetise
their wardrobes, while
20% are vintage or new
fashion businesses.
Source: econsultancy.
com (http://econsultancy.
com/uk/blog/8558-asos-
rketplace-sales-grow-
690-over-the-past-year#)
60 | TOWARDS THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY
3. How it works up close
Continued
A ‘Netflix for clothing’ currently being worn by someone else.
This model also delivers a better solution
To test the potential of a different approach, for consumers by increasing the range of
we have envisioned one version of wide- clothes available through the year and
scale rental: a ‘Netflix for clothing’ providing regular laundry service.
(Figure 13). Netflix charges a monthly fee for
unlimited access to a selection of television In envisioning and analysing this model,
programming and cinematic films. For an we chose the U.K. as the initial geography;
analogous clothing rental service, consumers however, the model is easily transferable
pay a membership fee equivalent to their to other countries. For the moment, it
current annual spend on clothing is most relevant in North America and
(~USD 1,000 per year for the U.K.). In Europe given the high penetration of online
return, they receive access to a full week’s retail in these regions. However, there are
wardrobe with the possibility to swap items examples of clothing-for-hire services in
on a weekly basis. Such a model reduces Asian economies, such as ‘Open Closet’ in
the amount of unworn and unwanted South Korea, which has begun to take in
clothing in our wardrobes, as items that business suit donations and offer them to
would have otherwise remained unworn are young job seekers on a rental basis.
FIGURE 13 Clothing: New ‘Netflix for clothes’ is an example model that delivers more choice
and more style for consumers by providing ‘fast fashion’ shared amongst a community of users
Illustration of clothing rental model
Browse and choose Delivery Streamlined
Users browse online selection Delivery by courier to wardrobe
of items and picks desired conveniently located At any given time,
wardrobe. Tools, including centralised lockers, users have 18 items
prediction engines and virtual where users pick up of clothing hanging
fitting rooms, can help pick the parcels in their wardrobe
right items at the first attempt
Wash & care Returns
Clothing is returned to the When the user tires of the style,
central depot where it is repair is needed or a new size
washed, inspected, and required, items are packaged and
readied for the next user brought back to the centralised
lockers for pick up. Users can
swap as many items as necessary
SOURCE: Ellen MacArthur Foundation circular economy team
TOWARDS THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY | 61
FIGURE 14 Clothing: Online rental archives cost savings in COGS and delivery partially offset by increased
cleaning costs
Comparison of online retail and online rental profit USD operating profit per rental customer
Cost Savings Increased cost
1,010 353
424
Conventional
retail
0 0 50 182
1,010 216
131
145
153
Online rental
151
model 213
Revenue1 COGS2 Store Delivery3 Laundry4 Warehousing Profit
operations & fulfilment
and SG&A
1 Revenue assumed to be the same in the retail and rental scenario (i.e., consumers spend the same amount of money to gain access to clothing
through rental as they would to buy new pieces of clothing each year)
2 Savings on cost of goods sold (COGS) driven by decrease in clothing production from 29 garments/year under an ownership model to 16
garments/year for rental
3 Small delivery cost compared to current online retail model from moving to a centralised ‘locker’ delivery system (similar to Deutsche Post’s
packstation system)
4 Rental clothing is washed after each return by the consumer
SOURCE: Euromonitor, Expert interviews, WRAP ‘Valuing Our Clothes’ 2012, Ellen MacArthur Foundation circular economy team
What could the profit potential yield greater benefits in the future as rental
look like? providers have an incentive to increase the
durability of their clothing inventories and
This model presents a real economic reduce the energy requirements for laundry.
opportunity of ~USD 200 in operating In moving towards this kind of collaborative
profit per renter123 and is sensitive to the consumption model, we would shift from
assumptions for delivery costs, laundry, and a situation in which each individual or
the average service life of the garments124 household has a small incentive to buy
(Figure 14). durable clothing (either to be able to wear the
123 clothing longer or to be re-sell it at a higher
1 Revenue assumed to be the In addition, it results in 14 fewer garments price reflecting its residual value) to one in
same in the retail and rental
scenario (i.e., consumers spend being produced and reaching their end- which one or several companies have a large
the same amount of money to of-use annually per renter. If we assume 6 incentive to increase durability as a critical
gain access to clothing through
rental as they would to buy new million subscribers in the U.K. (approximately driver of business profitability. In a similar
pieces of clothing each year)
equivalent to the share of the U.S. population vein, WRAP reports that U.K. households that
2 COGS savings driven by a that subscribes to Netflix),125 this adds up change their laundry habits towards lower
decrease in the production of
clothing from 29 garments/year to a material savings of USD 236 million. energy intensity (washing less often, washing
under an ownership model to 16 Considering the full system, a scenario that at lower temperatures, reducing the use of
garments/year for rental
includes rental and achieves 75% collection tumble dryers, and washing with fuller loads)
3 Small delivery cost compared
to current online retail model of all end-of-use clothing results in a material could save USD 16 per year. By contrast, with
from moving to a centralised savings of USD 3.8 billion for the U.K. 6 million renters, clothing rental companies
‘locker’ delivery system (similar
to Deutsche Post’s packstation Projected to North America and Europe, the would be looking at a savings ‘pie’ worth
system). savings rise to USD 44 billion. approximately USD 100 million a year.
4 Rental clothing is washed
every time the consumer returns
an item In the rental model, the total amount of For clothing, the potential impact of switching
laundry increases as more cleaning is required from the individual linear consumption model
124 Delivery cost for an 11kg box between uses; however, the overall effect of to a circular wardrobe rental business is
to a centralised locker is assumed reduced production, increased laundry, and already visible today. Elis, a USD 1.3 billion
to be USD 8 compared USD 16
for at home delivery comparable increased transport is a net water savings European company that rents industrial
to timed grocery drop-offs.
Average service life of clothing is (37 m3 per renter annually), net material clothing and textiles (uniforms, safety
assumed to be 75 washes. Using savings (USD 38 per renter annually), and garments, table linens, bed linens, etc.) and
less intensive laundry practices,
laundry costs are reduced to USD a small net carbon savings (11 kg CO 2 e per serves 290,000 customers, are continually
0.07 per item renter annually). working to increase the durability of their
125 Associated Press, By the offering, which has benefits for both their
Numbers: Netflix Subscribers,
2012 In addition, the model may be expected to consumers and their business.
62 | TOWARDS THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY
3. How it works up close
Continued
take off faster with the spread of an asset-
MYTH
light lifestyle among young people. Both
Consumers’ desire for fast-changing
one-off rental of women’s formal wear and
designs and a variety of styles will
second-hand or ‘vintage’ retail options are
always have a negative resource impact
already increasing and converging around
solutions similar to conventional retail, which
consumers are familiar with, including greater
Reality: Not necessarily.
curation of stock and easy returns. The best-
Not with ‘clothing for hire’
known forerunners are at the high-end of the
market—‘rent-a-tux’ for men and formal-wear
The best way to improve the resource
and designer labels for women. All of the
impact of clothes is to make sure that
elements of the business system are familiar
each item is durable and used until it’s
and mature: online retail, delivery and return
really at its end-of-life— not just when it
services, and professional dry cleaning and
goes out of fashion. More collaborative
laundering. This promising basis might be
consumption models can deliver this
combined with the know-how on tap at print
durability and intensity of use while also
fashion magazines or cosmetic companies as
giving consumers a wide choice of styles
well as apparel makers or department-store
and sizes to wear.
chains, e.g., online ‘personal shopper’ services
and wardrobe sets cued to colour palettes,
In a clothing hire scheme, instead of
the dress codes of different professions, and
each consumer’s only small incentive
other needs, and supported by three-month
to buy more durable clothing (either
trial offers and messages emphasising the
to wear longer or to resell for a slightly
wealth of choices; degree of certainty/easy
higher price because of its residual
‘corrections’; time, space, and money savings;
value), one or more companies have a
and all-round convenience.
large incentive to ensure durability as
a key driver of profitability. In addition,
• For optimising the end-of-life flows in
clothing is used more intensely. The
countries such as the U.K., much of the
dress that was previously worn only once
behind-the-scenes infrastructure is already
or twice now ‘goes out’ several nights
in place for the four types of reuse of used
a month—with a new wearer. Instead
clothing. Thus, the critical change here is
of one wardrobe full of mostly unused
to increase collection rates (see below).
clothes, each user has access to multiple
Awareness-building efforts here refer to
apparel collections, and can change and
helping consumers appreciate that their
update clothes more often.
used clothes actually have value as well as
making them aware of collection points and
other opportunities to donate. Surprisingly,
many people are still unaware of the value of
How can clothing reuse used clothes. In WRAP’s 2012 survey of U.K.
be increased? consumers, the group of respondents who
sometimes get rid of clothing by discarding
The changes needed to make a successful shift it mixed in with other household waste were
from today’s linear consumption model to a asked to explain the choice. One of the main
fully circular system include awareness raising, reasons, reported by 75%, was the belief that
scale-up infrastructure and design innovations. ‘the item could never be used again for any
purpose’. In addition, 26% mentioned that ‘the
Awareness building. Like the idea of the items have no monetary value’.126
circular economy as a whole, it should be
possible to accelerate business building in Increasing collection. The availability
both areas through extensive and targeted and convenience of collection points also
awareness building of the value that can be contribute to awareness building, and both
extracted. should help to boost collection rates.
• The more radical-sounding ‘year-round • At stores. Current campaigns by retailers
126 WRAP, ‘Valuing
Our Clothes’, 2012 wardrobe hire service’ has the potential to as diverse as Marks & Spencer, Uniqlo, Puma,
TOWARDS THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY | 63
‘Ultimately, a closed loop approach to
the reuse of not just textiles, but all types
of resources, is basic common sense’.
CYNDI RHOADES (CEO, WORN AGAIN), NICK RYAN
H&M, and Patagonia to increase in-store presence and efforts of the U.K.’s 6,000+
collections are one very important step and charity shops, and offers this opinion: ‘I think
help make donations ‘cool’ and at the same in the U.K., there is a greater culture of charity
time routine, a regular part of weekly errands. shops, which likely leads to higher collection
Noting the successful mindset change in rates. There is more of a “waste not, want
the U.K. over the previous decade regarding not” culture’. In other countries, the model
plastic and glass bottle returns, Cyndi may be more focused around in-store or
Rhoades, CEO of Worn Again, says: ‘People municipal collections but it is critical to make
know that plastic and glass can be reused these collections more accessible and part of
again. That’s why it’s quite exciting that big common practice.
retailers are moving in the direction of closed
loop and starting to educate their consumers Design for end-of-life re-use. As a key
on that.’ element in the circular economy, greater
consideration of end-of-life processing is
• Via municipal waste collection. Clothing needed in the design phase of clothing
stores are one obvious new place to locate the production (e.g., ease of repair, sorting,
start of the reverse cycle for clothing. Another disassembling, and recycling). At Patagonia,
is the municipal waste collection process itself. for example, all clothing is designed both to
In many locations, the municipal government be recycled and with durability in mind.
provides space for a private textile collection
company to set up its collection bins, thereby Further innovation. In addition, new recycling
creating a new revenue stream for the technologies (chemical recycling) are required
municipality. In a further development, LMB in closing the loop (with separate reverse
and WRAP are currently trialling a ‘survival streams for biological and technical fabrics).
bag’ solution that would allow the collection As we have mentioned, textile innovators such
of clothing alongside but—importantly— as Worn Againare developing processes to
separated from household trash, keeping the recapture polyester and cellulose from cotton
clothing undamaged while greatly increasing which can be reintroduced into the polyester
convenience for consumers. Ross Barry, LMB and viscose supply chains. It is expected that
CEO in the third generation of the family’s up to 99.9% of the polyester and available
‘360-degree recycling’ business, is optimistic cellulose will be recaptured and returned as
about the results of the trials: ‘The survival resources into these supply chains.
bag is so convenient for people. People don’t
see that there’s a recycling option so they’re 3. Packaging
just throwing clothing in the bin. With the
survival bag, we could collect clothing along An integral part of most consumer goods,
with regular household waste. The bag then packaging is typically a technical component
just needs to be pulled off the belt in the that is discarded at the time of consumption.
sorting process’. It plays a major functional role in protecting
and dispensing the product, representing a
• In other retail or recycling settings. Other significant proportion—usually 10 – 25%—
new collection systems are appearing as well, of the total product costs.127 Packaging is
such as i:co, which installs collection boxes also used as a vehicle for communicating
in retail shops. Consumers add their items to differentiation and brand benefits to
the box, which then weighs the donation and consumers at the shelf and in use.
rewards the giver with an in-store voucher/
coupon, the value of which reflects the weight Why does packaging waste matter?
of the items.
Packaging represents a large proportion of
More collection is urgently required, consumers’ use of materials and accounts
127 Analyst reports,
McKinsey Purchasing and however—particularly in other countries. for nearly 20% of household waste.128 The
Supply Management practice While the average collection rate in the U.K. is frequency of purchases and high volumes
128 Packaging in Perspective, already 65%, the average across the EU is only associated with consumer products mean that
Advisory Committee on 25%, and for the U.S. only 15%. Alan Wheeler consumers buy large amounts of packaging—
Packaging, 2008
of the Textile Recycling Association ascribes an estimated 207 million tonnes globally129
129 US EPA 2010,
Euromonitor 2012 part of the U.K.’s higher collection rate to the
64 | TOWARDS THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY
3. How it works up close
Continued
with a value of USD 384 billion each year. A key factor in unlocking the commercial
Although certain packaging types in some opportunities of the circular economy is to
markets have moderate levels of recycling design with the intention of creating distinct
(notably aluminium cans and glass bottles material flows. When biological materials are
in Europe), a large proportion still ends up in combined with technical ones, this can create a
landfill—around 50% in the U.S., for example.130 particularly complex challenge if resource value
is to be retained. The effect of this ‘hybrid’ waste
Packaging is often made of materials that are product is to constrain or prevent the biological
combined in a way that constrain recycling nutrients from undergoing regenerative
or prevent the restoration of biological decomposition in landfills and complicate the
nutrients to the soil. Superior packaging harvesting of technical materials like polymers
performance, especially for films and foils, is and metals. One example is non-degradable
frequently obtained by combining different food packaging. The ‘clamshell’ packaging
types of materials. Since these materials used for fast foods traps the food’s biological
are often chemically bonded they render materials within the non-degradable technical
recycling impossible or at best economically packaging material. Clearly, designing packaging
unattractive. from the outset for reverse circles requires
close attention to multiple factors (Figure 15).
FIGURE 15 Packaging: There are many considerations when determining
whether a product should be designed for reuse or decomposition1
PRODUCT SAFETY ALTERNATIVE
REGULATORY AND LOGISTICS MODELS
QUALITY REQUIREMENTS
TECHNICAL AND END OF LIFE
USAGE REQUIREMENTS RECOVERY OPTIONS
MATERIAL, ENERGY, BRANDING AND
CARBON AND WATER COMMUNICATION
REQUIREMENTS
FIT WITH CURRENT MATERIALS SOURCING,
SYSTEMS AND PRODUCTION AND
INFRASTRUCTURE DISTRIBUTION COSTS
Recovered for decomposition Recovered for reuse
1 List is not exhaustable
Source: Expert interviews
130 USA EPA 2010
TOWARDS THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY | 65
Building more circular business are recycled. This is true for the various
models in packaging forms of ownership of the collection and
recycling services, many of which are run by
Shifting the consumer goods packaging a municipal authority as well as some run by
industry to circular models will result in the private sector. For example, DS Smith
significant material savings and reduce Recycling, a private company working with
pollution, and represents a positive economic many public and private sector customers—
opportunity for manufacturers, retailers, and the largest paper and cardboard recycler
consumers, and municipal authorities. in Europe—has delivered steady revenue and
profit growth across its operations. While
There are three key circular levers for fast- current technological challenges often limit
moving consumer goods packaging that will post-consumer recycled material content
help close the loop: in packaging, the lower prices of recycled
materials encourage manufacturers to
• Improving the ‘BAU’ situation: Recycling— maximise their use.
recycling provides an intermediate solution
‘for a business as usual’ situation where Some consumer goods manufacturers have
reuse infrastructure is not feasible. Although also made their use of recycled materials
significant material savings can be made by a feature of their brands. Recent research
collecting and recycling used packaging, a suggests 75% consumers said they are
short lifecycle ensures that losses rapidly willing to pay a 5 – 10% premium for green
compound even at high collection rates packaging.131 However, it is unclear whether
actual purchasing behaviour will always
• Designing for circularity – by intention: match stated intentions.
– Biodegradable packaging—packaging is
designed for biological regeneration. Single- What opportunities exist to
use packaging facilitates the return of bio- quickly scale up recycling?
based materials to regenerate food/farming
systems, or where collection systems are not Steps required to increase recycling and
established. quickly capture more value include
improving sorting technology and,
– Technical/durable packaging—packaging is importantly, designing packaging to be
designed by intention to facilitate reuse with conducive to circular/reverse processing.
existing labour, energy and resource input. Some examples include:
Infrastructure exists to harvest materials for
the next cycle. For waste management companies:
Straightforward investments in existing,
A virtuous cycle mature technology to separate current plastic
packaging into more distinct fractions will
Recycling packaging has economic benefits result in large material savings. For example,
for both the recycler who gains a new by using near-infrared sorting equipment,
revenue stream and for the packaging some material recovery facilities (MRFs) in
manufacturer who gets access to (generally) the U.S. are able to sort out the five main
lower raw material prices than for virgin plastics, PET, PP, PS, HDPE and LDPE. Our
stock. As part of the transition to fully analysis shows that a full scale-up to all MRFs
circular solutions, better design and more in the U.S. would deliver an estimated annual
extensive collection, sorting and recycling materials saving of USD 7.3 billion and a profit
can deliver significant material savings. of USD 2.4 billion—approximately USD 200
per tonne of plastic collected—even after
What is the recycling profit taking into account capital investment
potential? required for new sorting equipment
(Figure 16).132
131 The growing demand
for green, McKinsey Recycling is profitable on a global scale.
Quarterly, April 2012
In OECD countries, there is already an
132 The Ellen MacArthur economic case to increase the volume
Foundation circular
economy team analysis and number of different materials that
66 | TOWARDS THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY
3. How it works up close
Continued
FIGURE 16 Packaging: Moving to better sorting of all plastic packaging collected in the U.S. ONLY
U.S. generates a profit of USD 200 per tonne1, approximately USD 2.4 bn each year
Profit from ‘going circular’
USD per tonne1
592
526
196
130
66
Revenues from Cost of collection, Profit Avoided losses Total circular
sale of recycled sorting, processing made when profit
resin and disposal of operating old
residues linear model
1 Per tonne of plastics packaging in municipal solid waste
SOURCE: Ellen MacArthur Foundation circular economy team
For consumer goods companies: • Designing packaging for more effective
sorting. Simple steps can be taken
• Designing out contaminants (e.g., colorants, immediately in design, such as not using
plasticisers, stabilisers). Procter & Gamble black-coloured materials as they cannot be
developed a significantly more circular detected by near-infrared equipment, or
package for their latest razor. In addition to by avoiding large labels on packaging as
featuring lighter materials with better end- the label can be mis-detected as the actual
of-life options, the new packaging is also packaging material.
100% free of polyvinyl chloride (PVC).133 As
April Crow, Global Director of Sustainable • Designing packaging for easy dismantling.
Packaging at The Coca Cola Company points Materials sciences and design institutes
out, “We [as a consumer goods community] offer instructions and checklists to make
need to make sure that more of the materials packaging easy to take apart by adopting
we put on to the market have value to circular principles. For example, not using
encourage the circular economy approach; multiple polymers or mixing different types
too many today are difficult to recycle or of materials that cannot be separated, such
contaminate existing recycling streams. as glass and metals or plastics and paper, in
When we introduced the first PET bottle one type of packaging. This is currently not
into the market in the late 1970s we made a an issue with most beverage containers, for
commitment to develop the technology that example PET bottles, which typically have
would allow that material to go back into PP/PE caps to enable easy opening, can
our packages as a secondary raw material. easily be separated in a float sink system due
We supported the development of the to different specific weights of the materials.
technology and end markets to enable this.” However, if similar specific weights are used,
133 The Grocery
Manufacturers Association, Coca Cola has a design approach that insists or the material cannot be easily separated, it
Environmental Success
Stories in the Consumer that their packaging must be designed to be becomes more difficult.134
Packaged Goods industry, recyclable, but also recognise there is still
February, 2012.
a role to play in increasing collection and Even in a scenario in which all major materials
134 Interview with Dr recycling of the packaging material that can be separated, recycling on its own will
Klaus Stadler, Director
Environment & Water they produce. not close the loop on packaging materials.
Resources Europe, Coca
Cola Europe Packaging will still account for a large share
TOWARDS THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY | 67
FIGURE 17 Beer packaging shows potential for far greater circularity in many markets
One-way packaging model Reusable glass bottles model
Raw material producer1 Raw material producer
Packaging manufacturer Packaging manufacturer
0-5%
End-of
-life packs
recycled
Brewery/bottler 52-61%2 Brewery/bottler into new
packs
Retailer Retailer 95%
Return
(deposit)
scheme for
reusable
packaging
6 2803 0006 9 Recycling 6 2803 0006 9
Consumer Consumer
0-5%
40-48%3
Recycling 0-5%
Packaging
collected
Landfill/incineration3 Landfill/incineration3, 4 from standard
recycling
scheme
1 Example: PET resin, glass cullet, aluminium blocks
2 Recycling - Plastic bottles 52%, aluminium cans 60%, glass bottles 61%
3 Incineration (‘waste to energy’) of PET bottles, if done cleanly, is preferable to landfilling
4 Additional glass in municipal waste streams may be sorted in mixed-waste material recovery facility (MRF),
but unlikely to be back into food-grade glass bottles due to regulations
SOURCE: WRAP, press searches, expert interviews, Ellen MacArthur Foundation circular economy team
of material consumption, especially given • Power of circling longer. Packaging
the rapid expansion of consumer goods in designed for maximum reuse ensures huge
emerging markets. As discussed by Walter material savings per unit volume of product
Stahel,135 products with short lifecycles, a consumed.
characteristic of many consumer goods, incur
high material losses even when recycling Analysis of a representative reusable-bottle
rates are high. For example, aluminium drinks system for beer showed, for example, that
cans, which, in many European countries, are designing a more robust bottle (with 34%
currently recycled at the high rate of 70%, more material than a standard one-way
still ‘lose’ more than half the original material glass bottle) allows up to 30 reuse cycles,
within six months136 (assuming a 60-day offsetting the additional material cost
lifecycle from can to can137). Significant losses 20 times over.138
are incurred in the long loop for recycling
used packaging back into the stream of Adopting new circular reusable models
packaging material inputs. and maximising existing models for
packaging represents a major opportunity
Designing packaging for reuse can bridge the for manufacturers, retailers, consumers
135 Walter Stahel,
Founder-Director, The gap to true circular systems (Figure 17). and municipalities. Keeping packaging in
Product-Life Institute,
circulation for longer will deliver dramatically
Geneva, lecture at Surrey
University - ’The drivers Reuse—the power of the inner circle greater material savings versus the traditional
behind the shift from
a linear to a circular and circling longer linear one-way system, especially if high
economy’ 16, February, collection rates can be ensured. Current
2011
Circular systems that retain and reuse informal collection systems in emerging
136 Ellen MacArthur
packaging in its original form are the gold markets are ideally suited to reuse schemes,
Foundation circular
economy team standard for material savings: while the growing online retail and home
137 Novelis company delivery trend in developed markets is
website, ‘The Recycling • Power of the inner circle: Given suited to high collection rates for all types of
Process’
inefficiencies along linear supply chains, reusable packaging as delivery trucks easily
138 The Ellen MacArthur
tighter circles associated with reuse result facilitate reverse logistics.
Foundation circular
economy team analysis, in a higher substitution effect for virgin raw
SABMiller interviews,
December 2012 materials (due to lower material losses).
68 | TOWARDS THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY
3. How it works up close
Continued
What works well today? Previous investment in reuse infrastructure
and the relatively low bargaining power of
Circular business models are in use today and retailers, who tend to prefer the simplicity of
deliver lower costs for manufacturers and one-way containers, are also factors likely to
consumers in both emerging markets and promote reuse systems. Finally, it also helps
in ultramodern high-volume operations. In to have relatively undifferentiated packaging
many markets, beverages are sold in refillable types (often with the same package used
packaging, mainly glass. Depending on the across different brands), as this reduces
market environment, refillables are a preferred handling and processing costs of used bottles
139 Interview with Peter
Koegler, Senior Manager packaging solution for many beverage for both retailers and manufacturers.
Environmental Value, SABMiller
manufacturers due to their generally lower
140 Interview with Peter carbon footprint and higher profit margins In order to maximise the use of every bottle,
Koegler, Senior Manager
Environmental Value, SABMiller when compared to one-way packaging.139 high collection rates are required. In emerging
47% of SABMiller’s current global business markets, the relative value of the bottles
141 Interview with Dr Klaus
Stadler, Director Environment for example, is in refillable bottles.140 This is provides a sufficient incentive for collection,
& Water Resources Europe, The
Coca Cola Company driven not only by the emerging markets of further enabled by greater consumption of
Africa, Latin American and Asian, but also by beverages on premises where vendors can
142 Coca Cola micro distribution
model- Coca-Cola website European markets. retain possession of the bottles. In Africa, for
‘How Coca Cola is helping
instance, over 80% of beer is consumed on
entrepreneurs in Africa to
set up their own businesses The success of reuse schemes relies on a premises.143 In developed markets, refillable
http://www.coca-cola.co.uk/
community/micro-distribution- number of factors. First of all, a high cost of systems are well established in high-volume,
centres.html raw materials relative to other input costs on-trade food and beverage settings where
143 Canadean beer report 2012 encourages reuse as new materials are not collection can be ensured (e.g., bars and
required every time a beverage is consumed. restaurants with supply chains for reusable
144 Growth of soft drinks in
Western Europe between Coca-Cola is typically able to cycle its glass beer kegs and local brewer-bottled beer).
2001 and 2010 was 14% for
off-trade and only 6% growth bottles 35 – 45 times.141 A second factor While recent trends in developed markets
for on-trade, while for beer the is low-cost collection and redistribution have seen a significant move to consumption
difference was even greater:
24% for off-trade and only 5% infrastructure, typically built on either efficient away from bars and restaurants for both beer
for on-trade; Euromonitor value back-hauling in developed economies, or on and soft drinks,144 opportunities still
sales, 2001-2010
low-cost labour and relatively short transport exist in the on-trade for companies to
145 Interview with Jon Wilde,
Global Packaging Sustainability distances in traditional retail markets.142 provide a better product experience and
Manager, Trinity Procurement higher value for consumers via a closed-loop
GmbH, subsidiary of SABMiller
plc, December 2012 collection system.145
146 Assumptions include 30 MYTH
reuses per bottle, 95% return Expanding these solutions more widely
rate, 34% weight increase for Consumer goods companies prefer to
reusable vs. one-way, 300 represents an opportunity for manufacturers,
make large volumes of products in one-
km average road miles from distributors and collectors, and consumers.
brewery to store and vice versa, way packaging, selling them directly
USD 1.73/km transport costs, This can be illustrated by the case for reusable
1.14 reusable bottles required through big supermarkets
beer packaging (Figure 18). Our modelling
for each single-use bottle
(bottle float requirement), of beer containers shows that shifting from
USD 0.79 retailer handling
costs per bottle a model of one-way glass to reusable glass
Reality: Some consumer goods
beverage packaging would lower the cost of
147 SABMiller carbon-intensity companies would much rather use
sensitivity analysis, July the packaging and all associated processing
2012, shows that returnable returnable packaging; they make
and distribution by approximately 20% per
bottles deliver lower CO2e money, save more material and have a
than PET, cans, and one-way hectolitre of beer sold to consumers.146 It has
glass bottles (not publicly lower total carbon footprint
available information); also been shown in various recent studies
PricewaterhouseCoopers, that not only can refillable bottles deliver
‘Reuse and Recycling Systems Gabor Garamszegi, SVP Corporate
for Selected Beverage a higher profit than one-way alternatives,
Packaging from a Sustainability Affairs for SABMiller Europe, says: ‘We
they also have a considerably lower carbon
Perspective’, 2011, determined would generally prefer reusable glass
that unless transport distances (CO2e) footprint.147 Although refillables are
exceed 600 km, reusables bottles from both a cost perspective, as
are more profitable and often resisted by retailers, some studies
they may provide better margins, and a
environmentally beneficial than have shown higher footfall due to providing
one-way; The Beverage Industry sustainability angle, given the material
Environmental Roundtable, collection facilities for used bottles, and even
June 2012, concluded that savings and associated lower carbon
higher basket spend per trip due to capturing
returnable bottles accounted footprint [vs. one-way bottles]’
for 13% of total footprint, consumers on their bigger shopping
versus 65% of total footprint
for one-way bottles. trips (e.g., superstore chosen for weekly
TOWARDS THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY | 69
FIGURE 18 Packaging: Reusable glass bottles offer approximately 20%
lower cost than single-use glass bottles, driven by significantly lower material costs
Comparison of single-use glass bottles and reusable glass bottles
USD costs of packaging per hectolitre of beer consumed
Cost Savings Increased cost
47
Single-use 34
glass bottle
8 5
0 0
38 22
2
Reusable
7
glass 2
5
bottles
Total Packaging1 Transport & Processing3 In-store Capital
packaging collection2 handling4 investment5
related costs
1 30 uses for recycable bottles, 95% return rate, 34% weight increase for reusable vs. one-way
2 300 km average road miles from brewery to store, £1.73/km transport costs
3 Filling costs equal for single and reuse bottles, washing/sterilising operating costs USD 0.8 cent for reusable bottles
4 Handling fee paid to retailers of USD 0.8 cent per reusable bottle
5 Reusable bottle float requires 1.14 reusable bottles to every single-use bottle; in-store collection infrastructure GBP 3,800 per store; brewer washing
equipment USD 0.19 per hectolitre (depreciated over 10 years)
SOURCE: Expert interviews, WRAP, Ellen MacArthur Foundation circular economy team
shopping).148 Retailers are already routinely Other significant steps towards a fully
using returnable transit packaging in place of circular system in consumer goods
cardboard boxes in their distribution network, packaging are likely to include alternative
but more work around ‘retail-ready’ or ‘shelf- models to the traditional bottle return and
ready’ packaging could still be done to reduce refilling systems. Greater adoption of in-
the amount of single-use cardboard. store and in-home refilling systems would
deliver significant material savings, as well
In Canada, approximately two-thirds of beer as opportunities to provide consumers
is sold in reusable bottles—and the majority with a greater product choice and usage
of brewers in Canada, large and small, use experience. Recent success stories include
a common standard bottle, the industry Sodastream in-home carbonation systems,
148 Movement Shopper Standard Mould Bottle (SMB). This, together with strong year-on-year revenue and
Watch, Sweden, 2002
with a return rate of approximately 97%, profits growth since 2007.151 Method, a U.S.
149 Economic analysis not
reduces costs versus one-way containers. The business recently acquired by Ecover, has
carried out on bulk refilling
of wine, but as suggested Canadian government initiated a shift of the grown quickly on the back of concentrated
by Nicola Jenkin of Best
Foot Forward, formerly packaging industry to adhere to an Extended and refillable detergents. In-store refilling
of WRAP, ‘bulk refilling of Producer Responsibility (EPR) programme. has not yet taken off widely in the food and
wine is surely the biggest
packaging opportunity This means that industry takes full beverage sector due to the technical and
in beverages that we
responsibility (including costs) for disposing food safety challenges that would need to
can solve’. Globally, the
roughly 17.5 billion bottles of packaging and other materials. be overcome. In other sectors, however,
of wine consumed annually
account for 8.75 billion successful examples, such as paint mixing
tonnes of glass—more Beverage refilling opportunities also exist in the home improvement sector, have
packaging than any other
product in the food or beyond beer and soft drinks. For imported been in operation for many years. In the
drink sector, http://www.
goods, it will rarely make economic sense hospitality and food services sector, the
wrap.org.uk/content/retail-
drinks-category-wine to return used packaging to the place of success of Coca-Cola Freestyle machines—
150 WRAP website ; manufacture, but where volumes are high, which provide over 100 different options
section on retail drinks both the economics and environmental and approximately the same footprint as
category http://www.wrap.
org.uk/content/retail- considerations are likely to be favourable to an existing six- or eight-valve fountain
drinks-category-wine
bulk refilling—such as bulk imported wine dispenser152—demonstrates that innovative
151 Financial Times that could be filled in returnable bottles.149 solutions can give both producers and
Market Data : Sodastream
International Ltd http:// Delhaize, a leading Belgian retailer, ships wine retailers the opportunity to differentiate their
markets.ft.com/research/ in bulk from various regions in France for offering, and deliver choice to consumers.
Markets/Tearsheets/
Financials?s=SODA:NSQ filling into bottles in Brussels. A similar model
has been suggested for the U.K., the biggest
152 Coca-Cola Freestyle
facebook profile https:// importer of wine globally at approximately
www.facebook.com/
cocacolafreestyle/info 1.2 billion bottles per year.150
70 | TOWARDS THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY
3. How it works up close
Continued
Biodegradable153 packaging can facilitate considerable return of nutrients to the soil.
return of biological materials to the soil Ecovative’s packaging solutions have already
As Ramani Narayan of Michigan State achieved cost parity with conventional plastics,
University puts it, ‘There is no one easy end- and are being successfully used to displace
of-life solution. Recycling makes sense when non-reusable or non-recycled materials such as
the article has value, can be readily collected, expanded polystyrene. The potential drawback
and easily cycled. […] However, single- of using nutrient-rich biomaterials such as
use disposable packaging and packaging mycelium is that when collection and disposal
in contact with food lend themselves to options are not available, valuable biological
composting and anaerobic digestion as end- material is taken from and not returned to the soil.
of-life options.’
Biodegradability can also facilitate useful end-
Biodegradable packaging is favoured for of-life processing options when collection for
applications where the packaging is used or reuse or recycling is not feasible. Contaminated
in contact with organic materials (e.g., food laundry in hospitals, for example, can be
residues), where it is difficult or uneconomical collected in biodegradable (PVA) bags—such
to collect it and separate (e.g., plastic films), or as those developed by Harmless Packaging—
where it facilitates the recovery of food waste. and thrown straight into the washing machine
Successful applications include biodegradable where the bag dissolves harmlessly, avoiding
food waste bags that allow the return of food unnecessary contamination and waste disposal.
to the soil, or large-scale catering events,
where single-use biodegradable packaging Insufficient end-of-life options could be tackled
can be easily gathered up in order to return by designing biodegradable packaging for
the more valuable organic materials for multiple organic waste collection methods,
regeneration. Perhaps the most striking recent such as disposal via a ‘garbage disposal unit’
example was the London Bio Packaging in the sink (already present in 50% of U.S.
contract for the 2012 Olympics Games. All households156) or through a washing machine;
food waste and an estimated 120 million the organic waste could then be collected and
pieces of packaging was readily collected in a processed into fertiliser products and/or biogas
contained system and industrially composted via existing waste-water treatment facilities.
at an in-vessel composting site.153 Contained Feasibility would depend on the existing sewage
systems such as large-scale events or fast infrastructure, the additional carbon load on the
food restaurants are ideal for ensuring the waste-water treatment system, and the relative
correct disposal route for packaging, because cost and value captured versus organic waste
as Ramani Narayan says, ‘As a consumer collection trucked to anaerobic digesters or
153 For the purposes of this you cannot make a mistake if there are no industrial composters.
report, where we refer to
mistakes to be made’.
biodegradable, it is assumed
that the material can therefore For biological materials, biodegradable
be readily decomposed under
composting or anaerobic The use of standard biodegradable plastics packaging could theoretically provide a fully
digester conditions in a short, does not provide additional nutrients to the circular system. For most applications requiring
defined period of time
soil, but the materials do furnish the ‘carbon durability, however, the economic case still
154 Let’s recycle website
: ‘Countrystyle composts fuel’ for the microorganisms that digest needs to be proved versus the established
packaging from Olympics’ , the other organic matter.155 Currently, many technical packaging materials such as glass or
10 August, 2012 http://www.
letsrecycle.com/news/latest- anaerobic digesters and industrial composters petrochemical-based plastics.
news/compost/countrystyle- use expensive de-packaging machines
composts-food-packaging-
from-olympics to separate valuable organic waste from Bio-based materials, i.e., materials made
155 Ramani Narayan, Biobased packaging. With advances in biodegradable from biological sources, but not necessarily
& Biodegradable Polymer packaging technology, processing, and biodegradable, should also be considered
Materials: Rationale, Drivers,
and Technology Exemplars; the coupling of food with biodegradable when designing the future packaging mix
ACS (an American Chemical packaging, such investments will become a since they reduce reliance on fossil fuels and
Society publication)
Symposium Ser. 1114, Chapter thing of the past. lower greenhouse gas emissions. However,
2, pp 13-31, 2012; Ramani
Narayan, Carbon footprint of companies that make bio-based materials
bioplastics using biocarbon Some materials, e.g., mycelium, Ecovative must also take responsibility for the end-of-life
content analysis and life cycle
assessment, MRS (Materials Design’s EcoCradle™ mushroom packaging, process: it is not sufficient to make disposable
Research Society) Bulletin, Vol retain much of the nutrients of their plant- bags out of bio-based polyethylene, but accept
36 Issue 09, pg. 716 – 721, 2011
based material due to their distinctive the littering, landfilling and loss of material
156 American Housing Survey
(U.S. Census Bureau, 2009) manufacturing process (see sidebar), allowing from the biological system.
TOWARDS THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY | 71
Mycelium—An innovate ‘It is different from other biopolymers
packaging solution since you use the whole material, giving
you a very high bio-efficiency’, Eben
Ecovative’s products are fully Bayer explains.
compostable alternatives to synthetic
materials such as petroleum-based This minimal processing reduces
expanded plastics. They are made of the cost of the product, making it
mycelium—the ‘roots’ of mushrooms— economically viable; it has already
which grow in and around agricultural reached cost parity with expanded
by-products and can take any polystyrene, a material that has had
shape needed. over 80 years to improve its cost
structure. Additionally, the technique
While observing mushrooms growing can use multiple feedstocks, thus
on wood chips, Eben Bayer and allowing Ecovative to use locally
Gavin McIntyre, the founders of available crops. The low-capital
Ecovative Design, were inspired by manufacturing process also means
how the mycelium, a fungal network of there is limited benefit to centralising
threadlike cells, bonded the wood chips production, and is readily compostable
together, acting like a ‘natural, self- at the end of its use.
assembling glue’.
In 2010, Ecovative commercially
This observation spurred the team to launched a portfolio of protective
formulate a new method to produce packaging products, originally called
materials able to replace various types EcoCradle™. Early adopters included
of products, including petroleum-based Steelcase, a global manufacturer of
expanded plastics and particle board office furniture, and Dell, a computer
made using carcinogenic formaldehyde. technology corporation. Since then,
Ecovative have supplied their protective
As Eben Bayer puts it, ‘We’re using packaging to a growing number
mushrooms to create an entirely new of other Fortune 500 companies.
class of materials which perform a lot Ecovative is also investigating further
like plastic during their use but are applications, such as insulation and
made using crop waste and are totally additional consumer products.
compostable at the end of their lives.’
Since starting with two people 6 years
They use parts of plants that cannot ago, Ecovative has experienced very
be used for food or feed and thus have steep growth. It now has about 60-70
a low economic value. The mycelium employees, opened a new factory a year
grows in 5 – 7 days without needing ago and is planning additional plants in
any light or water, digesting the North America and Europe in the future.
agricultural by-product and binding
into any shape needed.
MYTH
Biodegradable packaging could solve our problems with overflowing landfills and litter
Reality:‘Biodegradable’ is a bit of a misnomer
‘“Biodegradability” as such is a Ady Jager, of NatureWorks, asks: ‘Unless
meaningless term: it has no time frame’, you can capture other valuable materials
Dr. John Williams of NNFCC asserts. ‘Most [food waste], why would you deliberately
biodegradable packaging only degrades degrade a material that could otherwise
under specific conditions; it won’t be reused or recycled after you’ve put
decompose for many years if left in a so much energy into making it?’ Many
hedgerow. That’s why the disposal system applications require, and benefit from,
also needs to be defined’. durability; this creates an inherent tension
with biodegradability.
72 | TOWARDS THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY
3. How it works up close
Continued
How can we scale up to full circularity? • Develop anaerobic digester and / or
industrial composter technology and
A wide range of interventions are required operating procedures to readily turn
to shift packaging from linear to circular biodegradable packaging into digestate or
systems, but all are already in place and compost (e.g., facilitated via incentives for
operating up to country scale in some accepting biodegradable packaging).
markets around the world.
As Marcus Hill, Founder and CEO of London
Expanding packaging reuse systems requires Bio Packaging, says, ‘There is a lack of
changes to product design, setting up return infrastructure [for biodegradable packaging]
distribution infrastructure and updating and lack of volume. But this is changing in
branding strategy: the UK. The general message from big waste
management guys is that they can recycle /
• Designing packaging intentionally for compost bio-plastics, but need the volume
durability and re-use (e.g., thicker walls and and incentives to do so. We are working with
anti-scuffing technologies as opposed to the the waste management companies to help
‘light-weighting’ trend of single use). push forward this change’.
• Updating current production, transport Encouraging manufacturers to take action
and retail infrastructure to process reusable could be supported by targeted regulatory
containers at scale (e.g., back-haul collection standard setting:
of used containers, washing, refilling).
Importantly, ubiquitous online and mobile • Regulators could help accelerate the
usage will generate new opportunities here scale-up of circular packaging systems.
as wholesale/retail distribution infrastructure Governments could converge on Extended
changes to accommodate new, possibly Producer Responsibility schemes required
radically ‘asset-light’ lifestyles. to transfer the burden (or the incentive to
innovate) to manufacturers. These schemes
• Convincing marketers / business owners are already in place in many European
that they can convey their brand image countries and being adopted by more
and justify price points through reusable emerging economies, Zambia being a
packaging. Notably, this varies widely by recent example.
product category with often limited rationale,
suggesting current behaviour is far more • EPR would deliver better design of product
manufacturer-driven than truly serving packaging for reducing, reusing and recycling.
consumer needs. It would also encourage investment in better
end-of-life solutions—for example, collection,
• Delivering technological development of sorting and recycling infrastructure.
in-store and at-home solutions for superior
consumer experience and convenience. • Supporting regulation will be needed to
ban toxic materials (e.g., PVC) and to modify
Making biodegradable packaging accounting systems to price in externalities
commercially viable requires technological (e.g., landfill costs, energy consumption and
development, commercial scale-up and carbon emissions). Taxes and mandatory
regulatory intervention: deposits on single-use packaging are other
examples where regulation has been used.
• Further develop materials to deliver equal
or better properties than technical materials • Manufacturers could initiate cross-sector
at parity or lower cost—and at commercial collaboration to spread the economic
scale—for applications where the system-wide benefits for reusable systems across the value
economics make sense. chain, since most savings are made by the
manufacturer, while greater costs are incurred
• Shift local authority spending from landfill to by the retailer.
anaerobic digesters or industrial composters,
e.g., via incentives or higher landfill taxes
TOWARDS THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY | 73
FIGURE 19
Building blocks of a circular economy—what’s needed to win
A
6 2803 0006 9
B
Collection Collection
C
D
A B C D
Skills in circular product New business models Skills in building Enablers to improve
design and production cascades/ reverse cross-cycle and cross-sector
cycle performance
•At the production level •Acceptance and adoption •Reverse logistics 1. Develop and reinforce
•At the process level by end-consumer •Technology cross-value chain collaboration,
•Incorporation of new joint product development
players within and across and infrastructure management
the value chains through
•Information and visibility
•Development of cross-value
chain business models
•Develop visibility of
material flow
•Industry standards
Match-maker mechanisms
2. Rethink incentives
Align economic incentives
3. Provide a suitable
international set of
environmental rules
•Adapted certification programs
•More extended producer
responsibility regulation
4. Lead by example and drive
scale-up fast
Opportunities for governments
to accelerate the spread of
circular setups
5. Access to financing
•Development of private investors
•Access to financing
SOURCE: Ellen MacArthur Foundation circular economy team facilitated for circular initiatives
74 | TOWARDS THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY
3. How it works up close
Continued
Putting it all together—building collaborate with country marketing and sales
blocks of a circular economy organisations so that valuable insights on the
performance of local recycling and organics
These examples—textiles, food processing collection can flow back into the product
by-products, post-consumer food waste, design process. While much of the ‘software’
and packaging—show the need to scale up for the transition has been on the drawing
multiple elements, or a ‘platform’ to reach a board and in development by thought leaders
full-fledged circular economy ‘ecosystem’. The for some time, this knowledge must be
exact nature of this ecosystem and its building brought into the production environment,
blocks is not yet certain, but the general skill debugged, refined and rolled out into
sets and equipment required for the journey commercially viable solutions at scale.
are increasingly clear (Figure 19).
2. New business models
1. Circular product design and production
The shift to a more circular way of working is
likely to require innovative business models
Companies will build core competencies in
that either replace existing ones or seize
circular design to facilitate product reuse,
new opportunities. There is a need for first-
recycling and cascading. Circular product
mover firms and initiatives. Companies with
(and process) design requires advanced
significant market share and capabilities along
skills, information sets, and working methods
several vertical steps of the linear value chain
that today are not readily available.
could play a major role in driving circularity
into the mainstream by leveraging their
Material science and selection will play a
scale and vertical integration. While many
critical role in product design. Manufacturers
new models, materials, and products will
should specify the purpose and performance
come from entrepreneurs, these brand and
of the end-products, more than those of the
volume leaders can also play a critical role.
input materials. They should also favour pure
Profitable business models and initiatives will
materials in their production process since
inspire other players and will be copied and
they are easier to sort at end of life. Besides
expanded geographically.
material selection, other areas important
for economically successful circular design
Acceptance and adoption by end consumers.
are standardised components, designed-
The success of new business models will be
to-last products, design for easy end-of-life
driven by the response of end consumers who
sorting, separation or reuse of products and
are eager to adopt innovative ways of doing
materials, and design-for-manufacturing
business. A rental scheme, for example, will
criteria that take into account possible useful
require consumers to modify their habits—but
applications of by-products and wastes.
in exchange for new benefits, such as new
‘We realised that laminates cause huge
levels of choice and convenience. Acceptance
problems, so we are now setting new design
will require raising awareness among
parameters that reduce the number of
consumers. Here, the big companies with
substrates. It always comes back to design’
well-known brand names have the most to
says Richard Gillies, Marks & Spencer.
gain (and the most to lose) and could take the
lead and launch advertising and awareness
The core of the process design challenge is
campaigns to change mindsets and drive
likely to be the need to overcome internal
adoption.
incentive mismatches (such as those
between organisational units measured on
Incorporation of new players within the value
their success in new product sales and other
chain. Companies already in business may
units aiming to reduce material consumption
be the likeliest early adopters, as they are
through remanufacturing and remarketing
intimately familiar with their category’s by-
of used products). Since product and end-
products, material losses and landfill charges.
of-life system need to be better matched
than they are today, there also needs to
TOWARDS THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY | 75
But new players and ‘outsiders’ will also be 3. Skills in building cascades / reverse cycles
needed in order to benefit from the injection
of new inventions (e.g., Oberon’s innovative New and more skills will be needed for
filtering and conversion equipment to make cascades and the final return to the soil
fish meal directly from the waste water of or back into the industrial production
food and beverage plants). They might either system. They will certainly include delivery
capture value directly by taking circular chain logistics, sorting, warehousing, risk
initiative or will facilitate the launch of new management, power generation, and even
business model as a side-line to their core molecular biology and polymer chemistry.
business, hence capturing part of the value With cost-efficient, better-quality collection
that to date has been left on the table. and treatment systems and effective
segmentation of end-of-life products, the
Information and visibility. To operate leakage of materials out of the system will
efficiently, the managers of most circular decrease, supporting the economics of
business models will need to maintain visibility circular design.
of the full value chain—for example, of the
by-products from different production stages. Reverse logistics chains to cascade materials
For this, working with an intermediary may to other applications will need to be optimised
help to enlarge the company’s range of vision. from beginning to end. It is therefore critical
Other business models will require quick to build up the capabilities and infrastructure
access to information and good visibility of to move towards more circularity. Collection
the material flow through the value chain. For systems must be user-friendly, located in
example, an entrepreneur willing to broker areas accessible to customers and end-of-
the reuse of highly perishable brewer’s spent life specialists, and capable of maintaining
grains will have to coordinate both with the the quality of the materials so they can
breweries and with farmers to extract the cascade through diverse applications. The
grains value in time. ‘downstream’ applications should cascade
in ways that optimise nutrients and value
Capturing value is accelerated when a recovery, before finally returning nutrients to
systems approach is applied to analysing the soil.
opportunities. An example of this is the U.K.’s
National Industrial Symbiosis Programme Private companies can drive the development
(NISP). NISP works to provide a brokerage of regional solutions. A prominent and
service for businesses wishing to turn waste award-winning industrial scale valorisation
into by-products. NISP also plays a role business in France is currently run by
in addressing technology and processing Veolia Environmental Services (VES). As a
barriers to maximise economic benefits. Since biowaste solutions provider to the FMCG
its launch in 2000, NISP claims credit for sector—specifically the food industry—it turns
bringing about cost savings of GBP 1 billion, biowaste into certified composts and organic
additional sales revenue of GBP 993 million, amendments, renewable energy, and liquid
and the creation of over 10,000 jobs in the fuel. Partnerships with the farm business
U.K. economy. allow for stable and long-term markets for the
compost.
On the consumer side, a new data driven
application could be developed to focus on Municipalities can (gently) foster the build-
the collection of consumer data that would up of reverse infrastructure, with information
allow for many more commercial and non- events and suitable nudges in the form of
commercial initiatives around collaborative city ordinances. This can go beyond allowing
consumption and other alternative business a company to set up textile collection banks
models to spring up. As James Moody, author up near a central traffic intersection. In
of ‘The Sixth Wave’, puts it: ‘While market Pune, India, cities have bylaws that all new
signals are slowly aligning and technology buildings must be equipped with recycling
factors are coming into place, the development infrastructure such as recycling rooms on each
of successful closed loop business models is floor and sufficient space in the basement for
still hampered by the lack of really good data separate containers.
on consumption behaviour’.
76 | TOWARDS THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY
3. How it works up close
Continued
Technology will allow optimisation of reverse between different interests but there needs to
logistics (e.g., textile sorting and tracking using be a substantial willingness to share.’
RFID tags) and also innovative applications
for reuse of materials (e.g., using BSG to A critical element in cross-sector collaboration
produce ethanol). There will likely be demand at scale is insight into how material flows
for biochemists and molecular biologists of two entirely different value chains may
able to recognise how the properties of a set be of relevance to each other. This starts
of biological and technical nutrients in one with sufficient information on what waste or
industry can be successfully cycled through by-product streams are available. It may be
another industry value chain. company-internal teams that then go and find
an application for these volumes, as is the case
4. Enablers to improve cross-cycle and with Procter and Gamble’s GARP team157, or
cross-sector performance this matching up may be performed by a third-
party service, such as a waste operator that
For widespread reuse of materials and has moved beyond the commodity business of
higher resource productivity to become waste haulage.
commonplace, market mechanisms will have
to play a dominant role, but they will benefit Rethinking incentives. ‘Rules of the game’
from the support of policy makers, in the form of better-aligned economic
educational institutions and popular incentives from tax authorities and regulators
opinion leaders. on issues such as cost of landfill and labour
costs could potentially speed up adoption of
Expand and reinforce cross-cycle more circular business models. For example,
collaboration. Consumer goods companies in most developed economies, taxation today
that want to design products and services largely relies on labour income. Resource
that are well-tailored to circular models, adopt and labour market economists have long
new business models, and build effective argued that labour—as a ‘renewable factor
and efficient reverse supply chains, cannot input’—is currently penalised over material
do this in isolation. They require new forms and non-renewable inputs. Instead, they
of collaboration with many other parties in advocate shifting the tax burden away from
their supply chain, sometimes of an entirely labour/income and towards non-renewable
different size or nature. At times this can resources. According to Walter Stahel: ‘Taxing
shake up the existing relationships and a new the consumption of non-renewable materials
balance needs to be found. As Jean-Philippe instead of labour will promote the local
Hermine, VP Strategic Environmental Planning reuse of goods, components and molecules
at Renault, recounts: ‘When we got involved and thus reinforce the competitiveness of
in our suppliers’ sourcing practices because the value-preserving business models of a
we wanted them to use certain secondary circular economy.’158
raw materials, we basically interfered with
an important source of how our they create There is some evidence though that this idea is
margins. As a consequence the supply taking hold at long last. In its December 2012
chain collectively needed to assess the new ‘Manifesto for a resource-efficient Europe’, the
profit pools and learn to capture a different Members of the European Resource Efficiency
competitive advantage.’ Platform advocated such a tax shift (among
other points):
Develop cross-value-chain collaboration.
A successful circular economy requires ‘Abolishing environmentally harmful subsidies
companies to look outside their own value and tax-breaks that waste public money on
157 GARP stands for Global chain and build collaborations across value obsolete practices, taking care to address
Asset Recovery Purchases
chains; bringing together companies (and affordability for people whose incomes are
158 From Walter Stahel’s
address to the World individuals) that are not used to working hardest-pressed. Shifting the tax burden away
Resource Forum in Davos, together. Jean-Philippe Hermine at Renault from jobs to encourage resource-efficiency, and
Switzerland, September 2011
notes: ‘For reverse supply chains like the one using taxes and charges to stimulate innovation
159 European Commission: in our ValTex textile recycling effort to work, a and development of a job-rich, socially
‘Manifesto for a resource-
efficient Europe’ http:// large group of very diverse players needs to cohesive, resource-efficient and climate-
europa.eu/rapid/press-
release_MEMO-12-989_en.htm be able to work together. There are synergies resilient economy.’159
TOWARDS THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY | 77
What will also help to quickly reach scale One example is in phosphorus markets, where
is regulation in the areas of consumer a few governments have started actively trying
and corporate responsibility, accounting, to help businesses extract value from sewage
certification, and standardisation. sludge. In Germany, the Federal Environmental
Office recently announced a goal of retrieving
Providing a suitable set of international phosphorus from sewage, and Sweden set
environmental rules. Government and public up an action plan in 2002 aimed at recycling
sector entities can help to foster cross-chain 60% of phosphorus, mainly by making sewage
collaboration by establishing standards and available for reuse. There may also be a role for
guidelines. Governments should re-examine intermediate, ‘convener’ institutions in some
certification programmes to enable new ways countries (e.g., WRAP in the U.K.).
of confirming the viability or safety of circular
products. As one example, limited certification Access to financing. All players across
guidelines currently exist for the use of the value chains need access to financing and
digestate from the anaerobic digestion process risk management tools to support capital
as a fertiliser. In a related vein, public authorities investment and R&D. These points are closely
can also encouraging the shift from consumable linked to the above-mentioned ‘rules of the
to durable, for example, by making reusable game’: a stable regulatory environment is a focal
beverage cups mandatory at music festivals point for investors. Governments can create
and other large-scale events, all of which must further funding stimuli by underwriting some of
currently obtain local permits to be held. the risks associated with innovative businesses.
Regulation could push producers to be more In Brazil, the Ministry of Agriculture, through the
responsible for the end of life of their products. ABC program, gives access to preferred credit
This would provide greater incentives for conditions to companies taking innovative
deeper circular design of their business model. initiatives.160 Private investors are already
investing in circularity and are doing so for
One area that could greatly benefit from deeper profit. Another example is Climate Change
government involvement is the preservation Capital (CCC), a London-based investment
of soil fertility. A few governments have manager and advisory group specialised in
already started responding to the need for carbon finance. The fund is one of the largest in
constant soil replenishment and a healthy the sector with over GBP 1 billion invested, and
balance of nutrients. In Ireland for example the is currently investing in anaerobic digestion in
government has put in place a comprehensive the U.K.
range of measures. One of the provisions
of its ‘Standards of Good Agricultural and Besides direct government funding, public-
Environmental Condition’ is to maintain the private organisations also play a crucial role, for
organic matter content of soil above the critical example in circular systems for soil nutrients.
limit of 3.4%. A number of agricultural funding One example is the Nutrient Platform’s program
mechanisms include soil fertility criteria and to ‘close the loop’ in Ghana. It is working on
a fertility monitoring system is in place. developing organic fertiliser products for the
Expert matter advice is available to farmers cocoa sector from different waste streams.
where needed. Nutrient Platform’s approach is strongly focused
on business development, combining local and
Leading by example and driving scale up fast. international private sector players on both the
There are many opportunities for governments demand and the supply side.
to use their own procurement and material
handling processes to accelerate the spread While the list of enablers is long, the trends
of circular setups. In the U.S., the policy of supporting a large-scale shift bode well. Both
moving towards procurement of performance- resource prices and disposal costs are rising,
based services (rather than products) has increasing motivation to find new solutions.
created a market of significant scale. In its Progress in technological and material
convenor or ‘matchmaking’ role, a government development supports longer-lasting and more
can initiate concerted efforts among different reusable designs, and increased visibility along
160 Maximum USD 500,000
loan, over 5 to 15 years, at companies in the value loops that are large the value chain enables all participants to better
5.5% - Money market rate is
enough to overcome diseconomies of scale. track products and materials.
around 7.5%
78 | TOWARDS THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY
3. How it works up close
Continued
A paradigm shift in emphasis, so, too, has our attitude
towards natural capital: the emphasis is
Skills and education requirements must on regeneration and not degradation. Our
evolve to enable learners to grasp ‘whole new concern with the state of the whole
systems’ design, a type of knowledge that in relation to the part replaces a largely
is essential to create and develop a new exclusive focus on the part. As a result, bio
bio-based circular economy. materials are understood as a dependent
part of a thriving whole, and products are
optimised within optimised systems.
‘Synthesising and creating are also
intellectual / cognitive capacities, and Education, at least in the formal sector
thus within the purview of school, and and before the age of 19, is often seen as
they are more important in the 21st delivering specified content (knowledge)
century than ever before. But educators and defined skills. Learning is usually
have less experience in training these understood to result from teaching, and
“habits of mind” and unless teachers certification is thought to guarantee that at
themselves have these latter skills, least a portion of that knowledge has been
they will not be able to inculcate them conveyed. It has been criticised for decades
effectively in students’.161 but it remains highly visible.
Howard Gardner
Recent work by educationalists Bill Lucas
Professor of Cognition and Education at
and Guy Claxton seems more in tune with a
the Harvard Graduate School of Education
changing world. They advocate ‘reframing
discussion on skills in terms of developing
dispositions and habits of mind’.162 This
The root of our existing educational system connects with the thinking of Howard
mirrors that of our economic system. Both Gardner (quoted above) and with leading
emerged from the traditions and worldview intellectual and business advisor Nassim
that originated in the Enlightenment: the Taleb who writes, ‘Solutions can only come
world is ‘machine-like’. Science now reveals from simple heuristics. That’s what we
that the world is not especially ‘machine- have been doing since civilisation began ...’
like’—it is more connected, feedback-driven The underlying sense in the term ‘circular
and reliant upon non-linear systems. As a economy’ is an attempt at such a heuristic,
result, with ‘systems thinking’ at its heart, a framework for thinking.
a new scientifically based worldview is
taking hold: a kind of revitalisation—an apt The education system, if it remains true
word, for many of its insights are based on to the rationale of mirroring the scientific
insights from living systems—a 21st century state of play and the economic concerns
Enlightenment. of dominant nation-states and leading
institutions, will have to evolve to enable
The nature of the shift learners to grasp the ‘habits of mind’, the
‘simple heuristics’ and the ‘dispositions’
The shift towards systems thinking is that enable effective ‘whole systems’
epitomised by the examples of the bio- design. This spans products, technologies,
based economy presented in this report. and molecules, materials, and energy flows,
A systems-based scientific worldview and perhaps makes explicit those links
recognises the importance of connection between the subject specialties
and flow, of dynamic equilibrium where that are chronically underplayed at the
feedback drives change and where the old present time.
one-way production system replete with
161 Professor Howard
Gardner (26th April 2012) waste is replaced by cascading materials. Whole systems design demands a thorough
OECD Education Today: ‘Waste = food’ is the notion of capturing rebalancing to make sure the specialist and
Educating for innovative
societies. value in all of the flows and, importantly, general skills underlying systems design
of rebuilding natural capital to ensure flow into one another, creating a richer
162 Bill Lucas and Guy
Claxton 2010 New Kinds enhanced flows. Just as the relationship understanding altogether.
of Smart (Buckingham
OUP Press) of the part to the whole has reversed
TOWARDS THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY | 79
The need to rebalance In dynamic systems, there is no fix, just
intervention and review, an iterative process.
The chart below summarises dimensions As a consequence, since most real-life
of education and training that need to be problems are contingent, solving them is
rebalanced. The headings in the left-hand much more likely to be a cross disciplinary
column characterise the main approaches effort—in business it would be decision-
of the 20th century. The right-hand column making units working as a team. In teaching
indicates the directions in which we need and learning, the emphasis would be on
to travel if we are to develop the innovative opportunities for participatory learning and
and adaptable school leaver who is able to creative and critical thinking, above all.
acquire new ‘habits of mind’.163
Systems thinking emphasises that skills have
to be broadly understood. Even something
as laudable as ‘problem solving’ carries with
it an assumption that a problem is capable
of being fixed. This can be true but often it is
not: problem contextualising, looking for the
systems and how to adjust system conditions
might be more appropriate.
Examples of rebalancing
20th century 21st century
Problem solving Problem appreciation and reframing
Analysis Synthesis
Reductionism Whole system emphasis
Closed and immediate cause and effect Multiple influences through time and space
Individual learning Team or group learning
Being competitive Competitive and collaborative
Emphasis on teacher transmitting pre- Learning through enquiry
determined knowledge to the student
Rooted in subjects or disciplines Meta-learning164
163 See Bill Lucas and Guy
Claxton (2009) Wider skills
for learning. Centre for Real
World Learning and NESTA
164 Meta learning was
originally described by
Donald B. Maudsley (1979)
as ‘the process by which
learners become aware of
and increasingly in control of
habits of perception, inquiry,
learning, and growth that they
have internalized’. ‘A theory of
meta-learning and principles
of facilitation an organismic
perspective’, Donald B.
Maudsley, 1979
80 | TOWARDS THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY
4
An economic opportunity
worth billions
Describing the potential economic payoff
of a rapid scale-up of circular business
models in the consumer goods sector.
1
82 | TOWARDS THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY
4. An economic opportunity worth billions
The ramifications of our choice between How companies will win
a linear or circular economic system
extend well beyond resource sustainability. Companies are set to win in two ways.
This choice will also affect the types of Firstly, the circular economy can help drive
businesses that succeed, the products and growth, in particular by opening up new and
services that consumers can choose, and the bigger profit pools in existing industries.
options for gainful employment. Secondly, it will help address a number of the
pressing strategic challenges that consumer
This chapter highlights the significant businesses are facing today. These include
potential benefits a circular economy can fragmentation of markets into micro-markets
bring to each of the stakeholders involved, with (locally) specific demand patterns
and how capturing these benefits can act as and supply chain requirements, which are
a catalyst to drive the transition. Of course, more expensive to serve. Value and revenue
as with all major innovations, there will be are being lost to second-hand markets as
individual winners and losers along the way– well as to new channels and more informal
the rapid growth of a new company may exchanges. Most consumer companies have
come from winning share from an incumbent experienced a persistent lack of growth in
for example. However, we have conducted mature markets in the face of increasing
our analysis for the consumer economy as a resource prices, exerting pressure on margins.
whole, and here we hope to show: As commodity businesses, consumer goods
generally have low barriers to switching,
How companies will win by tapping new but with digital media it is easier than ever
and bigger profit pools, reducing material for consumers to compare offers and prices
costs, addressing many industry-level online and with family and friends, pushing
strategic challenges, and building greater up churn rates and the costs of customer
resilience as a result. retention. Finally, while global sourcing
has given businesses new ways to reduce
How economies will win from the purchasing costs, it also extends supply
improvement in net exports, lower price chains into delicate hemisphere- or planet-
volatility, enhanced supply security, and the spanning networks, in which delivery (or not)
creation of local job opportunities in new may hang from a thread.
businesses. Job creation will reduce benefit
payouts, increase tax income, and improve New and bigger profit pools
GDP, while enhanced innovation from the In Chapter 3, we described how individual
circular economy will have further businesses could achieve lower input costs
intangible benefits. and in some cases create entire new profit
streams in some of the largest sectors in
How natural capital will win through reduced the consumer goods industry. Winners
pressures on the food value chain and are already emerging, supporting ongoing
preserved and improved land productivity. migration towards a more circular economy.
We believe similar opportunities are likely
How consumers will win from greater utility across the consumer landscape, some of
as a result of more choice, lower prices, and which will be stimulated by the following
lower total cost of ownership. developments.
New business opportunities due to systems
redesign/rethinking and co-location. Any
increase in materials productivity is likely
to have an important positive impact on
economic development beyond the effects
of circularity on specific sectors. Circularity
as a ‘rethinking device’ has proved to be
a powerful new framework, capable of
sparking creative solutions and boosting
innovation rates. New businesses using
cascaded materials are one clear instance.
TOWARDS THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY | 83
As demonstrated in our examples, attractive incremental optimisation on linear systems
opportunities exist for companies to add whereas circular businesses are just starting
new downstream businesses. These will to emerge and have not yet reached scale.
profit from the dual benefits of extracting Banks could help as they are typically far
additional value from the cascaded material more experienced in understanding risks
as input while avoiding waste costs. Both and therefore better at structuring long-term
benefits are likely to increase as the cost return models than corporations alone.
of landfilling rises, regulations tighten,
and available landfill space decreases. Product remarketers and sales platforms.
Development of the relevant technologies While providers of sales and remarketing
and capabilities will open up new services in the durables space are rapidly
pathways, and reduce the costs of those expanding and growing into substantial
that already exist. enterprises, in the food industry it is
especially micro businesses that are
Collection and reverse logistics. Our drumming to a different beat. Across
examples highlight the importance of different industries, the idea of ‘collaborative
explicitly designing collection and reverse consumption’ has become a popular
logistics as integral parts of an overall system part of social media culture, especially
that aims to increase materials productivity as well-designed platforms do not ask
by reworking end-of-life products. Around consumers to leave their comfort zones.
the globe, classical waste management Network technologies and social media
operators such as Veolia, CIWT and Abengoa are dramatically increasing their reach and
are increasingly diversifying the fractions reducing distribution costs for providers
they handle and diverting them from of sales and remarketing services. In the
landfill towards more recycling and even consumer-to-consumer environment, eBay
refurbishment operations. Logistics service and Craigslist led the way for second-hand
providers are increasingly treating reverse goods traded online. For clothing there is
logistics not only as a way to fill backhaul a growing number of dedicated sites that
loads but as an attractive standalone focus on different models of sharing. Some
business. DHL, for instance, picks up the more specialised companies are offering
recyclables of over 800 JD Wetherspoon sales platforms in the business-to-business
pubs when it makes deliveries there, and is environment, such as the Waste Producer
growing its waste-related services under the Exchange167 in the U.K., which is open to
Envirosolutions brand. It has also established any registered user who wants to sell waste
a beverage distribution platform in the U.K. products and materials.
that includes the distribution, refilling, repair,
and collection of vending machines. Solutions for more resilience and
competitiveness
Increasing circularity often creates new An emphasis on circularity could address
opportunities for localised integration to multiple strategic challenges currently faced
make use of by-products, which can create by consumer goods companies, such as
whole new local industries that would greater volatility, declining customer loyalty,
not otherwise be feasible in high-income and the burden of costly waste disposal.
countries. Examples are tomato greenhouses ‘Closing the loop’ in the circular economy
165 Houweling’s Tomatoes that profit from waste heat in a nearby CHP essentially requires much closer and more
in Camarillo, California, is a
125-acre tomato grower in
plant,165 or German farmers who diversify extended collaboration between participants.
California using a first-of-its into fish farming—where heat is a major part Consumers also become much more
kind combined heat and power
(CHP) system to provide of the costs—by using waste heat from their integrated because the value chain does
electricity and hot water for its farms’ shared biogas plant.166 not end at the consumption stage.
greenhouses, as well as carbon
dioxide (CO2) for fertilising
the plants. http://www.
Financing for R&D. Individual companies Reduced volatility and greater security of
sustainablebusiness.com/index.
cfm/go/news.display/id/24000 and groups will need funding for R&D and supply. Because the shift to a more circular
166 NDR: In Soltau kommt new technologies. As in the linear economy, economy implies using less virgin material
Zander aus dem Schweinestall, the financial sector has an important and more recycled inputs with a higher
21 March 2012
role in the circular economy. Incumbents share of labour costs, it will tend to reduce
167 http://www.
typically have large R&D budgets to develop
wasteproducerexchange.com
84 | TOWARDS THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY
4. An economic opportunity worth billions
Continued
a company’s exposure to ever more volatile end-of-life treatment options and incentives
raw materials prices, increasing its resilience. to use them could increase the number of
consumer touch points. This is especially
The threat of supply chains being disrupted true for businesses that rely on consumer
by natural disasters or geopolitical participation, for example to separate waste
imbalances is lessened, too, because such as Brantano, which periodically runs
decentralised operators provide alternative ‘new for old’ program in their shops to
materials sources. As Jean-Philippe Hermine collect used shoes in exchange for discount
at Renault remarks: ‘By reusing material, you vouchers. Here again, systems can only work
disconnect from market price volatility and if they offer mutual benefits.
secure supplies’.
New business models such as rentals
Both natural and synthetic fibres, for establish a longer-term relationship with
example, have a strong correlation with consumers, as many more interactions take
energy prices, which has led to price surges place between consumers and companies
and higher volatility. This is an important over the lifetime of a product. This offers
issue for clothing producers as materials companies the chance to gain unique insights
input is 9% of the cost of a garment, on into usage patterns that can lead to a
average. Replacing a larger share of inputs virtuous circle of improved products, better
with cycled materials would reduce clothing service, and greater customer satisfaction.
manufacturers’ exposure to the volatility168
of raw materials prices. Establishing a Circular models could also result in
reprocessing industry would therefore be better alignment between the interests
a highly advisable strategy for countries of consumers and companies, increasing
that currently import large quantities of raw customer satisfaction and loyalty. One
material in the form of cotton and synthetic example is the durability of clothes. The
fibres as inputs for the textile industry. trade-off for the company in a linear system is
customer dissatisfaction versus the potential
Mineral fertilisers are another example where to sell a new piece of clothing. In a circular
the local nature of many circular businesses system, where consumers can return clothing
should have a dampening effect on price for inexpensive/free repairs, companies
volatility. Fertiliser prices are set globally, and consumers both have an interest in
as the products are easy to transport and preserving the utility of the product.
depend on globally traded commodities
such as natural gas. Prices have been highly Another important point is that consumers
volatile in recent years, causing uncertainty care about waste, and addressing it
for farmers as fertilisers and crop protection proactively can have reputational benefits.
accounts for a large share of farm operating In 2012, H&M was humbled when it was
costs (40% for cereals production in the found to have been mutilating and then
EU).169 disposing of clothes it had been unable to
sell in order to keep them from turning up
Improved customer interaction and on the grey market. Public outcry forced
loyalty. Circular solutions offer new ways management to halt the practice.170 Food
to creatively engage consumers. ‘Instead waste is a particularly emotional topic, and
168 ‘Soaring polyester puts
squeeze on fashion’, FT, April of one-time transactions, companies can illustrates how deeply a company’s reputation
2011, and ‘Cotton prices surge
to all-time high’, FT, Feb. 2011 develop life-time service relationships with can be affected by their action on this issue.
their customers’, says Lauren Anderson, A recent Unilever study showed that a large
169 Farm Economics
brief N°2 - EU production Innovation Director at Collaborative majority of people (94% in China, 96% in
costs overview, European
Consumption Labs. The new ‘Coca-Cola Brazil and 72% in the U.S.) do care about the
Commission on Agriculture
and Rural Development Freestyle’ soda vending machine offers environmentally friendly disposal of food
170 H&M says it will stop consumers a very large choice of flavours, waste both at home and when eating out.171
destroying unworn clothes’, but has the footprint of just a few packages
New York Times, 6 January
2010 of Coke. With rental or leasing contracts in Optimisation of materials recycling systems.
place, companies can gather more consumer Some materials recycling and composting
171 Unilever, Sustainable
Kitchens: Reducing food insights for improved personalisation, systems are already well established.
waste—World Menu Report
global research findings, 2011 customisation, and retention. Providing They typically take the form of regionally
TOWARDS THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY | 85
ESTIMATE
FIGURE 20 Adoption of circular setup in relevant
fast-moving consumer goods sectors could yield
net material cost savings of USD 595 – 706 billion
per year at a global level
Net material cost savings in consumers industries
USD billion per year, based on total material savings
structured multi-user organisations (such as from consumer categories1, Global
the many product-category-specific systems
706 (21.9%)
in Europe, from batteries to packaging) or
are company-specific such as Nespresso’s Other2
collection and recycling of spent capsules. Tissue and hygiene
Beauty and personal care
Both group and single-company solutions
require a standard purity level suitable
Fresh food
for high-quality recycling processes.
Consequently, the market has generally
developed into regionalised, specialised
Beverages
players with natural barriers to growth
beyond their initial footprint.
A number of companies have nevertheless Apparel
started to enlarge the scale and scope of
their operations by adding new regions and
further materials fractions to their portfolio.
Tomra has used its technological capabilities
to supply the technology for large-scale,
nationwide collection schemes (e.g of PET Packaged food
bottles). The company has grown at close
to 20% per annum. Looking ahead, it plans
further improvements in technology to
reduce the burden of costly separation and
Advanced scenario
pre-sorting schemes and therefore aims to
achieve higher recycling yields at lower
1 Input costs derived from consumption and percentages of material
cost, resulting in rapid and profitable input for each category
2 Other includes consumer health, pet care, home care, and tobacco
growth for recyclers.
SOURCE: Euromonitor 2011,
Ellen MacArthur Foundation circular economy team
How economies will win
Beyond its fundamental value creation cost savings opportunity of USD 706 billion
potential over the next 10 to 15 years, a or a recurring 1.12% of 2010 GDP, all net of
large-scale transition to a circular economy materials used in reverse-cycle processes.
promises to fundamentally address some This breaks down into the categories shown
of the economy’s long-term challenges. A in Figure 20. In these scenarios, the savings
circular economy could cut net materials would represent ~ 20 percent of the material
costs and reduce price volatility and supply input costs incurred by the overall consumer
risks. Local job creation will be another goods industry.
important benefit, alongside greater
innovation and greater resilience. Importantly, These figures are intended to demonstrate
the greatly reduced materials intensity the order of magnitude of the savings that
and lower energy demands of the circular could be expected in a circular economy.
economy offer a viable contribution to Since the full effect of circularity for the
climate change mitigation and fossil fuel entire economy is highly dependent on
independence, making it easier to cross many factors such as industry structure
the threshold to a production base that and conduct, elasticity, and companies’
largely runs on renewable sources of energy. drive to reap circular potential, we chose
Moreover, the decoupling of growth from the to ground our estimate on the potential
demand for resources will also slow current materials savings observed for the products
rates of natural capital erosion, as the next in the examples examined in Chapter 3 and
section argues. extrapolated those to the rest of the fast-
moving consumer goods categories.
Substantial savings on net materials costs.
This report estimates that the circular
economy could represent an annual materials
86 | TOWARDS THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY
4. An economic opportunity worth billions
Continued
Similarly, our analysis only covers materials or infrastructure development models as
savings, as the net economic benefit of shifts advanced economies are, and thus have the
in associated labour costs, redirection of chance to leapfrog straight into circular setups
investments, and the split of savings between when building their infrastructure sectors.
users and providers or across players along Many emerging economies are also more
the value chain is likely to vary across sectors materials-intensive than advanced economies
and regions and therefore defies exact and thus could expect even greater relative
prediction. The order of magnitude identified savings from circular business practices.
confirms that we are looking at a substantial
opportunity for the economy as it is founded Local solutions can offer a degree of
on a structural and therefore lasting shift—a decoupling from volatile global markets, as
restorative circular economy. substitution by recycled/reused and cascaded
material lessens the need for virgin inputs,
As shown in Figure 21, by applying these reducing imports and dependence on the
circular practices in the near term across global materials supply chain.
the consumer sector, 30% more materials
could be recovered than are recovered today. Reduced pressure on scarce natural
The opportunities lie in both decomposition resources, lower GHG emissions. Further
(cascading, recycling and return of nutrients benefits accumulate in terms of reduced
to the soil) and in reuse of materials. externalities, such as GHG emissions, water,
or toxic substances (Figure 22). A growing
We expect significant economic potential for number of countries are developing low-
circular business models in both developed carbon growth plans and are investing to
and emerging markets. As a starting point, reduce greenhouse gas emissions and address
emerging market economies are often a range of environmental issues.
not as locked into existing manufacturing
FIGURE 21 Path to a circular economy—design and recover consumer goods for reuse or decomposition
% of FMCG products (by value)
Recovered for Not recovered2 Recovered
decomposition1 for reuse3
Today 18% 80% 2%
Near-term4 40% 50% 10%
Future5
1 Decomposition to allow materials to be recycled or biodegraded, depending on product/packaging material characteristics and end of life collection
2 Cannot be reused, recycled or biodegraded due to poor design and/or lack of end-of-life collection options
3 Reuse can include direct reuse for the same or different value streams or industries
3 Economic feasibility demonstrated in this report
4 Economic feasibility not yet proven
SOURCE: Euromonitor 2011, Expert interviews, Ellen MacArthur Foundation circular economy team
TOWARDS THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY | 87
FIGURE 22 The impact of more circular production processes accumulates across several layers of inputs
1 Including greenhouse gases
2 Including impact on soil health/fertility, biodiversity, and ecosystem services
The circular economy will relieve report found that ‘increasingly, jobs that are
environmental burdens by reducing the need created are in research and development,
for landfill and decreasing the public costs product design, engineering, and marketing,
of waste treatment (a severe burden on the whereas most unemployed people are
state as these costs are often not covered unqualified and require relatively less skilled
by the companies that make or process the jobs. While training can help redress this
items that end up in those landfills). Realising imbalance, new entry-level semi-skilled jobs
the full benefits of the circular economy from are also needed to replace the factory jobs
the specific examples we have investigated— that the linear economy has out sourced to
clothing, consumption food waste, food the developing world.
processing waste, and packaging—would
globally divert up to 340 million tonnes While some of the jobs created by the
of waste from landfill each year, of which circular economy are highly skilled, such as in
more than 80 percent would be from the technology development and research, a large
elimination of food waste alone. These savings share of the job creation is also for unskilled
are equivalent to 2.5 times the municipal labo ur, addressing a major problem of
waste the U.S. generates each year.172 developed countries, where such positions are
172 US EPA: 2010 MSW
characterization fact sheet
becoming increasingly scarce. ‘The diverging
and data tables, November Where GHG emissions are concerned, the fates of high- and low-skill workers are seen
2011 Municipal waste
stream includes waste impact could also be substantial. If food across the OECD: the share of employed
from both households waste were diverted from landfill and the workers who lack an upper secondary degree
and businesses. Municipal
solid waste does not energy from food waste-derived biogas was has declined by one-third since 1995’,177 the
include construction and
demolition materials, used as a replacement for natural gas, total report finds.
municipal wastewater savings of 580 kg of CO e per tonne of food
treatment sludge, or 2
non-hazardous industrial waste could be obtained.173,174,175 The resulting Collection and sorting activities to enable
wastes savings in emissions from household, retail, the reverse cycle are expected to create
173 Ecoinvent: The and hospitality in the U.K. for example would additional jobs locally. The head of the French
ecoinvent database,
version v2.2, 2012 amount to 7 million tonnes of CO 2 e. Additional Environment and Energy positive influence
greenhouse gas reduction benefits are gained on the soil’s water balance. Regenerative
174 Emissions in the value
chain of the food are not from replacing mineral fertiliser and using the agricultural systems typically pay special
taken into account, as heat from anaerobic digestion. attention to water management and improve
waste can be considered
burden free (IPCC) water balances through such design elements
175 WRAP, Waste arisings Greater job creation. Sectoral shifts will allow as crop choice, field layout, and landscape
in the supply of food and employment creation in new downstream elements.
drink to U.K. households,
2011 businesses. In a recent report, the McKinsey
Global Institute analysed the underlying Management Agency says that 28,000 jobs
176 McKinsey Global
Institute: Help wanted: The reasons for the 40 million people who are have been created in France over the past
future of work in advanced
economies, 2012 unemployed in developed countries. The 20 years in collection and sorting in the
88 | TOWARDS THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY
4. An economic opportunity worth billions
Continued
packaging sector alone.178 Sita Group, the Systems for reusing bottles also create
waste management arm of Suez Environment, jobs. A study of the German system—with a
estimates that some 500,000 jobs have large proportion of both reuse and one-way
been created by the recycling industry in the packaging (reusable bottles accounted for a
EU. This number could well rise in a circular share of 73% at the time of the study)—shows
economy. Clothes recycling, for example, will that production, filling, distribution, and retail
continue to rely on manual sorting. While employs 161,000 people. The study concluded
technologies are starting to emerge to sort that ‘going linear’—i.e., switching to a completely
textiles by type of fibre, human judgement one-way packaging system for beverages—
is required to sort clothes into around 160 would lead to the loss of 53,000 jobs, whereas
different categories according to what would increasing the share of reusable packaging to
be most appropriate for different markets. 100% would result in 27,000 additional jobs.180
Anaerobic digestion (AD) will create jobs Economic benefits from enhanced innovation.
not just at the plants themselves, but also Given the strong fundamentals of the
in logistics and at technology providers and underlying business case (assuming shifts such
related services, like quality testing. Anaerobic as comprehensive design changes to products,
digestion relies on local feedstock, heat sinks, service delivery processes, and technology),
and agricultural land to distribute the fertiliser, adopting more circular business models would
and therefore plants are limited in size (AD yield significant benefits, including greater
plants typically produce 1 - 2 MW, compared innovation across the economy (Figure 23).
to 1,000 MW for a big coal or nuclear power While the exact GDP implications of greater
plant). As James Russell from Tamar Energy innovation across an economy are difficult
puts it: ‘AD creates more jobs per MW than to quantify, benefits include higher rates of
any other energy technology’. Defra estimates technological development; improved material,
that 35,000 new jobs may be generated from labour, and energy efficiency; and more profit
the use of AD technologies in the U.K.179 opportunities for companies.
FIGURE 23 Revamping industry, reducing material bottlenecks, and creating tertiary sector opportunities
would benefit labour, capital, and innovation
Labour intensity Innovation index1 Capial intensity
Labour spending per unit of GDP IBM/Melbourne Institute Index Total expenditures/labour
output, EU-27 economies expenditures, E-27 economies
0.30 321 4.07
274
2.97
180
0.16
0.14 1.87
177 McKinsey Global Institute:
Help wanted: The future of work in
advanced economies, 2012
178 ‘28 000 emplois créés en
vingt ans’, Libération, 3 December
2012
179 Anaerobic digestion strategy
and action plan – Defra (2011)
180 Golding, Andreas. Reuse of
Primary Packaging. (Main report) Primary Secondary Tertiary Primary Secondary Tertiary Primary Secondary Tertiary
Brussels: European Commission,
1998, referencing previous report
by same author Golding Andreas,
Schaffung und Erhalt von 1 Components of index include: R&D intensity; patent, trademark and design intensity; organisation/managerial innovation; and productivity
Arbeitsplätzen durch Mehrweg,
in Neue Wege ohne Abfall – SOURCE: Labour intensity calculated using data taken from Eurostat Input-Output tables for EU-27, Innovation data from IBM/Melbourne Institute Innovation
Index (covering Australian Industry), 2010
Tendenzen, Fakten, Strategien,
Iför, Berlin, 1993
TOWARDS THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY | 89
FIGURE 24 Circular economy principles could help
regenerate soil to replenish natural capital
Nutrient balance in absence of
chemical fertiliser consumption ILLUSTRATIVE
Global deficits in 20001
N – 18.7 kg/ha/yr
P – 5.1 kg/ha/yr Nutrients extracted from
K – 38.8 kg/ha/yr the soil (crop production)
Gap in
circular
mode
Gap
BAU
practices, however, maintain and improve the
Gap
full range of macronutrients and micronutrients,
as well as carbon levels. The content of organic
matter in soil is also very important for soil
Nutrients fed
back into the soil texture, influencing water retention and nutrient
delivery to the roots of plants, which is critical for
Today plant growth. Chemical fertilisers do not supply
1 Z. X. Tan, R. Lal & K. D. Wiebe (2005): Global Soil Nutrient Depletion
and Yield Reduction, Journal of Sustainable Agriculture, 26:1, 123-146 organic material, while manure and compost
SOURCE: Ellen MacArthur Foundation circular economy team
have varying but typically high shares of organic
matter. While reports differ on the exact water-
Reduced budget pressure on municipalities
holding capacity of soil organic matter, there
that can generate revenue from household
is agreement on the fact that the amount of
waste. Municipalities can generate revenues
organic matter in a soil directly influences the
from their waste collection systems. Our
availability of water to a crop over time—and
estimate for an American city of 1.5 million
hence crop yield.182 The addition of manure and
inhabitants shows that it could generate
compost also helps in balancing the soil pH,
profits of USD 13.7 million p.a. from better
which is a limiting factor for nutrient absorption
sorting, not including landfill costs, or roughly
and balance. For most crops nutrient uptake is
USD 9 per person. Scaling that up globally
best when soil pH is near neutral.
would correspond to profits of USD 64 billion
for municipal budgets.
The circular economy maintains high levels of
nutrients and soil carbon by both ensuring that
How natural capital will win
organic wastes are returned—uncontaminated—to
Circularity reduces the pressures on agricultural the soil, and by deploying a broad set of agricultural
assets and the preservation of land productivity practices that reduce the speed of erosion.
through the return of nutrients to the soil.
The circular economy will reduce the need for
Less pressure on food production. Given that chemical fertilisers and soil amendments to
around one-third of the total food produced replenish the soil by processing and feeding
for human consumption is now lost or wasted, back much more biological material via (for
using this ‘waste’ material in place of virgin instance) anaerobic digestion—the principle of
agricultural output has substantial potential regeneration (Figure 24 illustrates this for NPK
to slow the growth in demand for land and nutrients). In theory, the organic sources of NPK
ease the strain on land that is already under fertiliser outlined in the sidebar could together
cultivation. Similarly, the use of secondary contribute nearly 2.7 times the nutrients
materials in other consumer goods reduces the contained in today’s total chemical fertiliser
need for virgin materials and hence—in the case volumes. This is the theoretical maximum,
of plant- or animal-based materials—for land. however, and further analysis is needed to
Avoiding the use of marginal lands for farming assess what share of organic fertilisers could be
will further curtail the need for additional returned to the soil in a cost-effective way.
fertilisers and water.
Ample attention is given to a more extensive set
181 Impact assessment of
the thematic strategy on soil Preserved land productivity. Land productivity of restorative agricultural practices—borrowing
protection – Communication
from the European is a complex function of the balance of nutrients from both the latest insights in agricultural
Commission to the Council, in the soil, its structure and organic matter science and engineering and century-old
the European Parliament,
the European Economic and content, farming techniques, surrounding (and re-discovered) principles such as those
Social Committee and the ecosystem, climatic conditions and available underpinning permaculture systems. The sidebar
Committee of the regions
irrigation.181 Soil formation is a very slow illustrates a small selection of such practices.
182 Compost increases
process: under natural conditions an inch of Like the return of carbon to soils, fertility-
the water holding capacity
of droughty soils--How topsoil takes thousands of years to form—as preserving agricultural practices will also have
to choose compost that
increases the soil’s water laid out in Chapter 1, this is no match for our a positive influence on the soil’s water balance.
holding capacity. Posted at current high-yield agricultural practices, which Regenerative agricultural systems typically pay
http://msue.anr.msu.edu/
news/compost_increases_ tend to erode topsoil and deplete nutrient levels. special attention to water management and
the_water_holding_
In our linear system we deploy chemical fertiliser improve water balances through such design
capacity_of_droughty_soils
on July 20, 2012 by M. to restore and improve nitrogen, phosphorus, elements as crop choice, field layout, and
Charles Gould, Michigan
State University Extension and potash levels. Circular, regenerative landscape elements.
90 | TOWARDS THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY
4. An economic opportunity worth billions
Continued
Urban farming: providing the missing link?
Alternative sources of nutrients
Co-location is often an important prerequisite
for closing loops as some material and energy Return of food waste: If 100% of
waste streams are difficult or prohibitively consumption-related food waste and
expensive to transport over larger distances 50% of other food waste generated
(such as waste heat or wet fertilising material). today was put back into the soil, it
As vertical and other forms of urban farms and could replenish 5 million tonnes of
processing capacity are situated near urban nitrogen, phosphates and potash (N,
centres, transport distances are reduced. This P, K), substituting for 4% of current N,
reduces costs, energy, and the food’s carbon P, K consumption.
footprint—and fosters local sourcing and the
supply of fresher food, two growing demands Return of animal manure: If all the
on today’s grocery retailers. nutrients from the current stocks of
cattle, chicken, pig, and sheep manure
Worldwide, many projects are being developed
were captured, they would yield an
that integrate agriculture, food production and
astounding 345 million tons of N,
energy generation processes so that waste
P, K annually—more than twice the
from one process can be immediately reused
world’s current consumption. Using
in another. This can take many forms, from
animal manure also improves soil
micro-scale rooftop gardens and greenhouses
structure and organic content and
to small-scale, urbanized forms of ‘industrial or
reduces fertiliser runoffs (by roughing
commercial symbiosis’ to drastically different
up the ground).183 Depending on its
concepts of agricultural production that
composition, animal manure can
basically decouple output from land use.
either be applied directly or after
‘The Plant’ in Chicago is a good example where anaerobic digesting/composting.
the discarded materials from one business
are used as a resource for another—industrial Return of human waste: Human waste
symbiosis. This vertical farm and food incubator also contains significant amounts of
plans to house artisan food businesses, N, P, K. If nutrients contained in the
including a beer brewery, bakery, kombucha waste of the world’s population were
(fermented tea) brewery, mushroom farm, and captured, they would amount to 41
a shared kitchen. The spent grains from the million tonnes, representing 28%
brewery are fed to tilapia fish, while solids from of the current N, P, K consumption.
the tilapia waste are fed to the mushrooms. There are, however, several concerns
regarding the use of human waste as
PlantLab in the Netherlands does away with the
fertiliser. The pharmaceuticals, heavy
concept of land-based agricultural production
metals, and hormones it contains
and even traditional greenhouses, instead
are harmful to human health and
optimising crop cultivation in fully controlled
ecosystems. New technologies could
closed buildings based on three principles.
facilitate recovery and ensure safety
One is vertical farming: plants are cultivated
of the materials returned to the soil.
on multiple floors of city buildings. The second
is special LED lighting that only provides the
wavelengths essential for growth: no energy
183 In Arkansas, research
revealed a 55% reduction in is wasted on unnecessary light spectra. Third,
phosphorus concentration mathematical models are used to optimise
in runoff seven days after
surface application of poultry growth inputs and combined with economic
litter made up mainly of
calculation models.
tocro fescue—a grass used
for fodder—compared with
a similar rate of inorganic Vertical and other forms of urban farming
phosphorus. A Wisconsin
study demonstrated that will likely always play at a different scale than
surface-applied dairy slurry large industrialised production, but together
reduced total phosphorus loss
from a tilled field because with such industrial-scale and other small- and
the manure reduced losses of
medium-scale production systems it makes up
particulate phosphorus.
John Lory et al, Using manure a system of nested circles, mutually increasing
as a fertilizer for
crop production, 2006 the agricultural system’s resilience overall.
TOWARDS THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY | 91
FIGURE 25 Regenerative agricultural practices
greatly reduce soil losses and quality deterioration
Example of wheat-maize rotation grown in Red
Ferralsol1 soil
29
Soil nutrient
losses
2
(t/ha/year)
net returns of USD 188/ha and the higher rice
196 production resulted in food security for an
additional 4.2 million Bangladeshis. In 2008
Bangladesh was able to cut its urea import
needs by 50,000 Mt, saving not only USD 22
Soil nutrient
losses million in fertiliser imports but also a further
(kg/ha/year) USD 14 million in government subsidies.184
Similar practices to select more carefully
and apply more precise quantities can also
10 reduce pesticides. As James Lomax of UNEP’s
Sustainable Consumption and Production
Branch summarises it: ‘The aim is to use
700 fewer “bad” agricultural inputs and to use the
“good” inputs better’.
Water losses
(m3/ha/year) 33 ‘Integrated farming systems’ refers to
integrating livestock and crop farming to make
Conventional Conventional
it easier to return nutrients to the soil. Crops
agriculture agriculture using
zero tillage and livestock interact to create a synergy that
can go beyond using the ‘waste’ products from
1 These soils occur mainly under tropical climates, and cover
extensive areas on flat, generally well-drained land. They animals as fertiliser for crops. One example is
are considered strongly weathered and associated with old the ‘aigamo method’. Keeping ducks on rice
geomorphic surfaces.
paddies was rediscovered by the Japanese
SOURCE: Castro (1991) as reported in FAQ Concepts and impacts
of conservation available at http://www.fao.org/docrep/003/ farmer Takao Furuno in 1989. The droppings
Y1730E/y1703e03.htm#P194_29413
from the ducks are a natural fertiliser, but
the ducks also keep insects and weeds
A broad range of regenerative farming under control and their wading and paddling
practices oxygenates the water and stirs up the soil.
The concept has been refined to integrate the
Nutrient waste can be cut while maintaining nitrogen-fixing fern Azolla, further reducing
productivity. According to the IFDC, two- the need for fertiliser. Furuno’s rice output
thirds of the nitrogen applied as chemical is reportedly a third higher than that of his
fertiliser often remains unabsorbed by crops neighbours, who use pesticides,185 and in
and becomes an environmental pollutant, 2011, the technique was successfully tested in
either in the form of potent greenhouse gases Camargue in southern France.
or runoff that pollutes streams and lakes. Less
than 30% of the phosphate mined to produce Another example is ‘pasture cropping’. This
phosphorus fertiliser becomes part of the is a technique of growing crops symbiotically
food chain as a result of inefficiencies in its with existing pastures. The mix of shallow-
production and use. There are several ways rooted crops and deep-rooted perennial
to use chemical fertilisers more effectively, pastures results in reduced wind and water
allowing smaller doses, such as slow-release erosion, improved soil structure, fewer
fertilisers or deep placement and precision weeds, greater nutrient availability and
agriculture. Improving the effectiveness of increased levels of organic carbon in the soil.
nutrient use does not just reduce pressure Measurements in the NSW Central Highlands
on the fertiliser supply; reduced runoffs also of Australia show that in such a system organic
protect the environment against the formation soil carbon levels can double over a 10-year
of aquatic ‘dead zones’ overloaded with period, and many crops there are now being
oxygen-depleting chemicals, encouraging sown without any chemicals or fertilisers.
algae to bloom where rivers run into the
ocean. One successful example is the urea The application of integrated farming and
184 IFDC (http://www.ifdc. deep-placement (UDP) technology project other permaculture principles has a measurable
org/Technologies/Fertilizer/
Fertilizer_Deep_Placement_ in Bangladesh (2008/2009), which has impact on the preservation of natural capital
(UDP)) delivered a 20% increase in crop yields and in terms of reduced nutrient and soil carbon
185 ‘Ducks replace paddy-field a 40% decrease in nitrogen losses. Farmers losses, and it typically improves water retention
pesticides’, The Guardian, 24
January, 2012 who used this technique had additional annual too (Figure 25).
92 | TOWARDS THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY
4. An economic opportunity worth billions
Continued
How consumers will win Clothing rental models will require clothes
that last, allowing consumers to wear the
The net benefits of a more circular latest fashion without any sacrifice of
economy are likely to be shared between quality or price.
companies and consumers. Marks & Spencer
explains: ‘Our first closed-loop project Lower total cost of ownership. Coca-Cola’s
has demonstrated that it is attractive to Mexican bottler, Femsa, exemplifies how
consumers—for high-value materials like consumers are likely to reap immediate
cashmere and wool, the cost of goods would price benefits from the circular economy:
be double for virgin material, so we would ‘On average, a refillable package is priced
have to sell at a much higher price’.186 Yet the 18% less than the same size non-refillable
examples in this report indicate that the package’.187 Similar savings will be available
real consumer benefits go beyond the throughout the value chain as companies
immediate price effect. Further advantages move to more reusable packaging. B&Q,
include improved utility and lower total Argos, and John Lewis in the U.K. have
cost of ownership. already moved towards reusable transit
packaging for larger items. As this report
Greater utility. The utility or benefit felt has discussed, however, cost benefits to
by consumers during consumption may consumers will go beyond the initial outlay.
be enhanced by the additional choice In apparel, for example, fast-changing
or quality that circular models provide. trends will no longer result in high costs
Consumer choice increases as producers of ownership for consumers: the rate of
deliver systems that allow the tailoring obsolescence will be greatly reduced
of products or services to better meet as wardrobes will no longer be packed
consumer needs. The digital world already with barely worn, out-of-fashion items.
provides many examples of customisation Consumers will also benefit from circular
based on individual taste/requirements (from models through the longer-term reduction
a range of offerings for men’s dress shirts, of municipal waste disposal costs and—
build-your-own chocolate or energy bars directly or indirectly—other environmental
and ice cream combos, to NIKEiD sneaker costs associated with the old linear system.
customisation and Songkick concert or
Amazon product recommendations). As To realise these benefits, consumers, will
new circular technologies go mainstream, of course need to embrace new models
further opportunities will arise for fast- of consumption. However, the changes in
moving consumer products. One example is behaviour associated with more circular
Essential Dynamics, a U.S. startup working models will be motivated by the desire
on a 3D printer for pastry chefs. Researchers for higher utility and lower prices. The
at Cornell University are developing further changes do not require consumers to
professional and at-home food applications assign a higher-value to products just
for printers of this kind. because they are ‘circular’, i.e., produced
using circular business models. On a
Rental models such as those discussed for more crowded planet, greater consumer
apparel will provide consumers with awareness of the issues laid out in Chapter
a greater choice at the same or even 1 is important, but the circular business
lower prices. Similarly, the choice of models we have explored in this report will
soft drinks is dramatically increased via not rely on consumers putting societal or
concentrate delivery systems such as environmental needs ahead of their own.
Coca Cola’s in-store Freestyle machine or These models will provide businesses, the
Sodastream’s in-home system. economy as a whole, and the individual
consumer with economic benefits first
Reuse and rental models also provide and foremost, while also ensuring a
consumers with access to higher-quality regenerative model of consumption for
186 Interview with Mark experiences without trading up to higher- future generations.
Sumner, 16 December 2011 priced propositions. Beer drinkers are able
187 WRAP, Refillable glass to enjoy their beer from heavy glass bottles
beverage container systems
rather than aluminium cans or PET bottles.
in the U.K., 2008
5
TOWARDS THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY | 75
The shift has begun
Mainstreaming the circular economy
Proposing concrete steps for participants in the
consumer goods industry and for the public sector
to bring the circular economy into the mainstream.
1
94 | TOWARDS THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY
5. The shift has begun
Mainstreaming the circular economy
The signs that the circular economy could (average) prices are also very volatile, as the
transform the consumer sector are already 2008 spike of USD 399 per tonne of fertiliser
apparent. But major change is required, showed.
and the linear world will continue to offer
some powerful disincentives for incumbents Second, advanced technology is ushering in
to take action. This chapter examines new opportunities to shift
how companies, consumers and public Technology has progressed to a level that
constituents can jointly accelerate the is opening up entirely new possibilities in
transition towards the new economy that three areas: information & communication,
we all ultimately need. industrial applications, and online retail.
Why the time is now Information and communication technology
has become a key enabler for facilitating
Multiple factors are bringing about a change circularity in consumer goods industries. New
in attitudes and making the prospects of Information and communication technology
a circular economy more attractive. The is providing the huge benefit of access
growing scarcity of resources together to a much broader spectrum of options
with advances in technology and greater and potential partners. Consumer goods
urbanisation are all heightening awareness industries generate discarded materials
that the time is ripe for change. that may well have economic value, either
as inputs in other sectors or even (reused
First, resource scarcity and tighter or repurposed) within the same industry.
environmental standards are here to stay This value, however, only materialises if
Previous chapters have detailed the recent an appropriate trading partner is found
pressures on resource prices, and businesses and—given the perishable nature of many
already recognise the need to address by-products—if such a match is made
sustainability and environmental standards. sufficiently fast. The new opportunities
A 2011 McKinsey Quarterly executive survey provided by advanced information and
revealed that the number of respondents communication technology are already being
pursuing sustainability initiatives to reduce captured in some arenas. Marketplaces and
costs or improve operating efficiency was auction platforms for trading waste and by-
up 70% over the previous year. The business products—often with a regional or sectoral
case is increasingly clear. As a result, character—are a prime example. Distillers’
investment in environment-related areas dried grains are traded on the Chicago
has increased dramatically. According to a Mercantile Exchange platform. The Waste
joint report by the World Economic Forum Producer Exchange (WPE) is an auction
and Bloomberg, global investment in green platform for individuals and companies
business initiatives in 2010 alone totalled willing to trade different types of waste in
USD 243 billion, a 30% increase over the the south east of the UK (such as cardboard,
previous year. Given their superior resource paper, compost, food waste, liquids, oils, and
performance, it seems likely that investments other chemicals).
in circular businesses will be systematically
rewarded over those that espouse the ‘take- New industrial technologies are coming
make-dispose’ principle. online or being deployed at scale, allowing
more materials reuse and greater profitability.
Companies adopting a linear approach
are also finding themselves subject to • Technologies that facilitate collection and
ever greater penalisation due to increased sorting: The use of RFID (radio frequency
costs. Landfill costs, for instance, will rise identification) has great capacity to boost
in the UK from USD 107 per tonne today to materials reuse. For example, using RFID
USD 120 per tonne as of 1 April 2013, and technology in the sorting of apparel and
are set to increase by USD 13 every year textiles at the end of their life enables the
from then onwards. Fertilisers are another cascade of each type of textile to more
example. Their market prices increased by suitable and higher value applications than is
an average of 13.4% per annum from 2000 the case today. Wide adoption of RFID could
to 2011, reaching USD 147 per tonne. These be facilitated by falling technology prices.
TOWARDS THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY | 95
• Technologies that facilitate reuse and are in emerging markets. Brazilian social
recycling: ‘Worn Again’ is an example of network penetration in 2010 was the second
recycling where technological innovation highest in the world, at 87.7%.189 A recent
plays a critical role. It enables the separation McKinsey survey of urban African consumers
of polyester and cotton followed by polyester in 15 cities across the continent found that
recycling into new polyester, leaving the almost 60% owned Internet-capable phones
quality unaltered. Only 0.1% of materials or smartphones.
are lost during processing. The cotton can
be chemically recycled into cellulose and Third, urbanisation is driving the
reintroduced to the textile value chain centralisation of consumer goods flows
as viscose. This technology allows real For the first time in history, over half of the
closed-loop recycling of polyester and world’s population will reside in urban areas.
provides a solution to the industry-wide By 2020, urban populations are expected to
problem of blended fibres. In the food rise by a further 20% to over 4.2 billion, 80%
industry, Wildwood brewery has developed of them in developing countries.
an integrated system to cascade or re-
use materials. Beyond the actual brewing Centralised consumption should mean that
process, the operations of this Montana reverse logistics—like the logistics of new
brewery include mycoculture, vermiculture, product delivery—become more efficient
anaerobic digestion, aquaculture, and more cost-effective. The collection of
and agriculture. household waste, as one example, will be
cheaper due to shorter collection distances,
• Technologies that facilitate cascading: and more efficient due to more frequent
An innovator in the field of cascading collection (increasing the collection rate and
use of waste to another value chain is reducing waste leakage).
Waste2Chemical, a bioengineering spin-
off from Wageningen University in the Integrated systems are an ideal solution to
Netherlands, where Professor Louise Vet recover materials in urban areas, leveraging
fosters research and innovation around short transport distances and high population
closed loop practices. This company develops densities. Alterrus VertiCrop in Canada is
bacteria that can process mixed waste and another example. In the words of its CEO,
convert the different components (fats, VertiCrop technology represents ‘a radical
proteins, and carbohydrates) into building shift in sustainable food production.’ Its
blocks for the chemical industry. While still at vertical-farming patented technology uses
lab stage, it has already attracted attention hydroponic technology to grow leafy green
and collaboration opportunities from both vegetables and herbs in a greenhouse. The
municipal waste generators and the chemical first rooftop incorporating this technology
industry. MBD Energy, mentioned above, has opened in November 2012 in Vancouver,
a further two projects under construction with the aim of producing some 70 tons
in Australia aimed at using algae to recycle of leafy vegetables per year. The company
captured industrial flue-gas emissions to targets yields up to 20 times higher than
produce liquid bio-fuels. normal (field) production volumes, with
fewer resources—only 8% of normal water
Online retailing provides a platform for new consumption would be used, and no strong
circular business models. In the U.S., online herbicides or pesticides. The vertical farms
retailing amounted to USD 200 billion in are much nearer urban centres, so they
2011, making up 7% of the overall retail promote local sourcing and the supply of
trade, and is expected to grow by a further fresher food. The shorter transportation
10.3% annually to USD 327 billion in 2016.188 distances reduce costs, energy consumption
Over half of US consumers bought an item and carbon footprint.
online in 2011. In emerging markets, where
consumption is growing at breakneck pace
188 Forrester research
and analysis (and, with it, the volumes of discarded
materials and by-products), there has been
189 McKinsey Quarterly
article, August 2012, : swift uptake of the Internet and social
Winning the $30 trillion
decathlon networks. More than half of Internet users
96 | TOWARDS THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY
5. The shift has begun
Continued
Some consumer goods companies luggage and packs’, and is willing to accept
are successfully pioneering items for which the recycling or upcycling
circularity approaches process is currently unclear or non-existent.
The concept and principles of the circular ASOS Marketplace—Reducing fast
economy have already been put into practice fashion’s journey to landfill
with success by diverse companies across the ASOS—originally founded in the UK in June
consumer goods landscape. Prominent but 2000 to make knockoffs of celebrity clothes
diverse examples include Patagonia, ASOS, (‘As Seen On Screen’)—is now a nearly
Uniqlo, and Sodastream. USD 800 million fashion ‘e-tailer’ with
8.7 million registered users (June 2012).
Patagonia—Teaching clothing ASOS targets young fashion-minded women
the 4 R’s of waste reduction and men by offering more than 850 brands,
Patagonia—a US-based USD 500 million including its own, served up with hip advice
(sales) maker of rugged outdoor clothing— and trend-spotting. In 2010, as a complement
is a long-standing advocate of sustainable to its site for new clothes, the company
materials usage through its ‘Common launched the online ASOS Marketplace
Threads’ initiatives. Having reached its ‘where anyone, anywhere in the world, can
initial goal of making all Patagonia® clothes sell fashion, to anyone, anywhere in the
recyclable, it has extended its efforts world’. By supporting the reuse of clothing,
to tighter circles. Its website states: ‘To the Marketplace site helps to increase the
wrest the full life out of every piece of our time clothes spend in use without
clothing, the first three of the famous four depriving consumers of their fashion
R’s become equally important—to reduce, consumption experience.
repair, and reuse, as well as recycle. We’ve
also learned that we can’t do it alone. We One of the UK’s fastest growing retailers
can only implement the four R’s if we do it in (with a CAGR of 142%) and its largest
partnership with our customers’. independent online fashion and beauty
retailer, ASOS made the reuse of clothing
First, Patagonia seeks to reduce the waste an integral part of its strategy for building
of clothing materials by making excellent customer loyalty. ASOS founder and
clothing that lasts, so consumers can live president Nick Robertson emphasises
comfortably with fewer pieces. The raw the business value of multiple ‘customer
material should be organic, recycled or touchpoints’: ‘Why do I allow customers
produced with minimal environmental and to recycle their own wardrobes through
social harm. Committed to making clothes Marketplace? Because the strategy is
that last, stay reasonably in fashion, and serve to engage with our core audience on a
as many uses as possible, Patagonia also more emotional level rather than on just a
explicitly calls on its customers ‘to buy only functional ‘shop and purchase’ level’.190
what she or he will wear — and want to keep
long enough to wear out’. Second: repair. Uniqlo—Maximising the durability of clothes
Patagonia makes an effort to match the Like Patagonia, Japan-based Uniqlo (‘Unique
durability of all garment components so that Clothing’), a company with revenues of
one does not wear out while the remaining USD 9 billion, is explicitly committed to
components and the garment as a whole still making durable garments: ‘Clothes should
have a lot of life. If a zip fails prematurely, not be seen as disposable products’. Uniqlo’s
for example, Patagonia will carry out these emphasis and motivation are customer
repairs for free. Third: reuse. If a customer no centric yet span the world. Their mission is
longer wants a garment, Patagonia provides to provide clothing that meets the demands
a way, through a third-party trading post, of every single person on the planet. As an
to sell it or donate it to someone. Fourth: apparel brand, Uniqlo believes that it is their
recycle. As of July 2011, Patagonia publicly duty to maximise the useful value of clothing.
pledged to: ‘take back for recycling any This is why Uniqlo refers to its clothes as
product ever made with a Patagonia label ‘shareable’. This concept also drives its All-
on it, including Patagonia Footwear (made Product Recycling Initiative. With its global
190 The height of fashion.
Marketing Week, June 2011 under license by a separate company), and partners UNHCR and JOICFP, Uniqlo has
TOWARDS THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY | 97
delivered 4.20 million pieces of clothing to will bring the manifesto of the European
refugees and others in need in 22 countries, Resource Efficiency Platform (EREP) to life in
including victims of the March 2011 disaster its assertion that there is ‘no choice but to go
at Fukushima. for the transition to a resource-efficient and
ultimately regenerative circular economy’?
Sodastream—Making carbonated Clear opportunities, set out in chapter 4, exist
drinks at home in the near term. Awareness and conviction
Israel-based Sodastream (2011 revenues of are also on the rise. While it is too early to
USD 275 million) is to carbonated drinks interpret these portents with precision, there
what Kindle is to books. Sodastream uses are identifiable patterns of events and actors
an established technology to displace that have carried systems-level change towards
consumable beverage packaging with a the tipping point in the past. What change
durable container. It has effectively created in economic pressure, shift in market share,
a revenue stream from both the sale of its or price fly-up will determine which patterns
apparatus and from a new consumable: could usher in the circular economy at the
the gas needed to infuse water and other critical scale required to reach the ideal future
beverages. Sodastream locks in customers state191 (Figure 30)?
through its system of refillable gas canisters
as well as minimising the packaging Most typically, change has been a reaction
material associated with gas consumption. to external shocks. Disruption of the global
food supply would raise awareness of the
Which pattern of change? need to shift to a more resilient model. Also,
it is often in the wake of natural or man-made
Market innovators are probing new patterns disasters that systems are (temporarily)
of circular consumption. But their models rebuilt around resource security and much
remain the exception. What needs to higher degrees of recovery.
happen for them to propagate? What
FIGURE 30 Path to a circular economy — design and recover consumer goods for reuse or decomposition
% of FMCG products (by value)
Recovered for Not recovered2 Recovered
decomposition1 for reuse3
Today 18% 80% 2%
Near-term4 40% 50% 10%
191 An ideal future-
state split between
materials recovered
for decomposition and Future5 70% 5% 25%
materials recovered for
reuse has been estimated
category by category; it
considers the product
design requirements
shown in chapter 3, likely 1 Decomposition to allow materials to be recycled or biodegraded, depending on product/packaging material characteristics and end of life collection
technical advances, and the 2 Cannot be reused, recycled or biodegraded due to poor design and/or lack of end-of-life collection options
ideal end-of-life collection 3 Reuse can include direct reuse for the same or different value streams or industries
systems that are matched 3 Economic feasibility demonstrated in this report
to consumption patterns. 4 Economic feasibility not yet proven
Source: Expert interviews,
Ellen MacArthur circular SOURCE: Euromonitor 2011, Expert interviews, Ellen MacArthur Foundation circular economy team
economy team
98 | TOWARDS THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY
5. The shift has begun
Continued
Clearly, a pervasive shift of consumer be played out between pioneering industry
preferences (such as seen towards instant leaders, discriminating, well-informed
food or bottled water) could drive the shift. consumers, and forward-looking public
As outlined above, early traces of that are constituencies. So what is the strategic
becoming apparent. case for these progressive companies and
authorities to act now?
A ‘man on the moon’ program could provide
pilot applications at critical scale. A plan to Buying the option—now
productively recover fertiliser or recycle CO
2
could act as a stimulus of this kind. Clearly, shortening product lifecycles,
untapped economies of scale, and the global
More recently, killer applications such division of labour will continue to be strong
as Google Earth have paved the way for forces behind our global delivery systems
fundamental change. This might involve and constitute a hard test for more localised
offering a technological or data backbone, and circular models. Yet in our interviews
such as a materials passport that would we consistently heard companies outline a
allow designers and engineers to make picture of their industries in which circular
well-informed design trade-offs when taking models would be a defining competitive
into account the entire life cycle of materials advantage. The target picture differs by
and products. industry, but they share similarities: being
more localised in terms of delivery, more
Or could change come as a silent intimate in their customer relationships, and
manufacturing revolution in the way more appreciative of feedstock control.
Toyota redefined the standard for good
manufacturing? This might involve identifying Localised and integrated supply chains
and encouraging pioneers, or developing in the food industry
multiple success stories. Triggers to drive Many food companies we spoke to expect
this revolution might be providing support to localisation and integration of supply chains
codify and spread knowledge, or establishing to be crucial in many markets. Local inputs
a culture of knowledge sharing. This would are becoming more common, with many
primarily entail a capability shift, and companies also taking greater control of their
would need to be coupled with a strong supply chains, such as PepsiCo’s decision to
profit incentive. grow potatoes locally in China for its crisps
and Nestlé’s on-going local sourcing drive
Perhaps the shift will come through a across developed and developing markets.192
voluntary, inclusive industry commitment as
witnessed in the food industry. An option Producers are deepening their service
could be to target supply chains where propositions by providing higher-value
change seems attractive and attainable. activities. Nestlé, for example, are expanding
All barriers to the circular economy would their premium offerings and associated
need exploring and addressing one by one. services through their professional business.
The key to success would be winning the Companies are also taking more control over
commitment of players from different value by-products and return flows of residuals.
chains. Creating forcing devices to ensure Gerber, the leading producer of fruit juices
192 Financial Times, ‘A market for
local sourcing’, 6 April, 2011; Nestle that supply chains collaborated (such as in the U.K., have implemented a dual-
website ‘Local manufacturing
commitment’ (http://www.nestle. the EU’s REACH model) would also nurture stream process. All juice that previously
com/csv/ruraldevelopment/ matchmaking opportunities. However, this would have gone to waste is now either
impactsofourfactories/
localmanufacturingcommitment) alone is unlikely to provide the scale of sent to community organisations, or, if unfit
adoption or degree of change required, as for consumption, to local recycling via an
193 Institute of Grocery
Distribution website – ‘Managing past efforts in other areas have shown. anaerobic digester.193
food surpluses responsible’
( http://www.igd.com/our-
expertise/Supply-chain/ History has seen all of these patterns lead This will all contribute to the central ‘circular
Sustainable-supply-chains/2661/
Supply-Chain-Waste-Prevention- to breakthrough: currently it is impossible to economy mission’ by reducing the volume
Guide-2012-from-factory-in-
predict which of them will tip consumption of produce discarded by consumers, while
gate-to-till/Case-Studies/
Waste-Management-case-study- into a more regenerative mode. We do know, also returning nutrients to the soil. It will
Gerber-Managing-food-surpluses-
responsibly/ ) however, that in the meanwhile the shift will also generate new revenue opportunities as
TOWARDS THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY | 99
outlined above and elsewhere in this report. Cities and other public constituents as
supply chain integrators and brokers
Retailing to micro-markets and circular of first resort
supply chain design Companies—as we have seen—have a
How do retailers see their future? Today they growing incentive to redesign products
are confronted by consumers demanding and chains vertically, starting from the top,
higher quality at lower prices, while also to eradicate costly waste and provide a
expecting regionally produced food from more tailored offering. Likewise, cities and
big chains. Walmart, for example, increased regions could play a new role in a world
sales of their locally sourced produce by 97% where materials and energy security are
in 2011, to over 10% of total produce sold in returning to the regional, if not local, agenda.
the U.S.194 Consumers judge supermarkets on Scotland, the Dutch city of Rotterdam, and
their fresh products, yet the fresh chain is the Tianjin, Miluo, and Taiyuan cities in China
most difficult of all to manage. have started to build circular economies
and provide all the infrastructure, services,
Circular principles that could help retailers and policy support needed to advance
master these challenges and meet circularity. They envisage more energy
consumers’ needs would be to shorten recovery, higher land productivity, value
the value chain, making local production creation through new reverse cycle business
possible. A number of examples already development, and employment creation.
described in previous chapters exemplify They see the circular economy as an
how collaboration along the value chain can accelerator for their economic agenda. Some
simplify processes while also reducing costs are creating knowledge innovation clusters
(and thus prices for consumers). Circularity for the circular economy that will help to
also reduces overall exposure of the value trigger exponential expansion in the field.
chain to commodity inputs and opens Benchmarks could be developed for every
up greater opportunities for using local (relevant) industry that pursued cascading
farms as effective, collaborative suppliers. rather than mere recycling. Infant industries
Discarded foods will serve as fertiliser and might be convened (such as nano-packaging
soil improvement for farms, or as a source of or smart textiles) to evolve circular systems
bio-based energy and chemicals; in return, before the industry is mature, when designs,
farms will sell back quality local produce at manufacturing footprints, and distribution
competitive prices. models are locked in. Another avenue might
be defining a template for a sector labelling
Apparel companies as fashion partners initiative and establishing a pilot in a pioneer
for life industry, such as clothing. Generating an
Apparel and textile companies have always open-source materials database would also
strived for longer-term relationships with assist in driving the change, giving details
their customers. In the circular economy, of each material’s function, performance,
consumers would have fashion partners and economics. In the apparel industry, for
from whom they would select their example, the Sustainable Apparel Coalition
apparel, returning it in exchange for new is developing the Higg Index to measure and
clothes. Products would be more tailored score its industry’s products and operations.
to consumer needs due to the greater Setting up a component trading scheme
interaction between producers and end could make another huge contribution.
users. The benefits for companies would
be greater customer loyalty driven both Some companies are starting to develop
by enhanced customer experience and the full-fledged regional resource plans for
new ancillary services they offer (such as primary/secondary resources. Others are
repairing garments and providing after- generating benchmarks by sector and
sales customisation). The recycling loop region to achieve the resource targets of
would close via smarter product design and such regional strategies as the EU Resource
breakthrough technologies that allowed high- Plan. An effective driver of change might
quality textile reuse. The prime benefit for be to create a circular-economy-based
companies would be lower materials costs. competition for municipalities and industrial
194 Walmart 2012 Global
parks. Governments could convene and
Responsibility Report
100| TOWARDS THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY
5. The shift has begun
Continued
support supply chain initiatives for specific based on analogous materials, requiring
archetypes, such as high-value, high-volume, estimates. At a minimum, it is possible to
and new supply chains. Taxation scenarios identify the presence of key ingredients
might also be investigated to determine such as sugars, aromatics, polysaccharides,
the impact of a potential shift from labour or oils. For each main family of ingredients,
to non-renewable taxation. The effects lists exist of the platform molecules that
of circularity on EU growth could also be can be derived from them, and potentially
explored, as well as its potential impact on of the chemicals and products that can
employment and the trade balance. be derived from these building block
molecules. (e.g., the U.S. Department
New framework on circular design of Energy investigated 300 platform
molecules that theoretically could be
If circular industrial design is carried by derived from sugar for their technical
strong trends and is supportive of corporate feasibility and commercial attractiveness).
and regional strategies, what is needed is The tally for this part of the investigation
a much more diligent search for waste and yields the incremental gross value creation
leakage along and across supply chains. potential of the ingredients. For flows
Whether for companies, industries, or with a positive value, the next step is to
regions, the search can be organised in investigate the cost of the process of
a very structured way, similar to value extracting the valuable ingredients. In
stream mapping in the context of lean the absence of cost data, the gross value
manufacturing; the framework brings can be used to determine a ‘budget’ for
together the cardinal points to study: the recovering and bringing the ingredients to
wasted resource flows, value creation market, making it easier to form an opinion
potential, possible barriers, and execution— on whether such a process (including
be it in-house or by a third party. This logistics) could be economically viable.
is illustrated below for the food
processing industry. It is useful to complete the resource
mapping exercise with information on how
What flows to go after? Regardless of scope, the environmental or social footprint of the
the search begins similarly by answering company/industry/region will be modified
the questions, ‘What wasted resource flows (ideally, improved) when making use of the
exist?’ and ‘Which flows should we pursue, hitherto wasted resource flow.
or pursue first, based on value?’ For the first
question, likely flows should be mapped What has so far prevented or could
from beginning to end point and including prevent the value from being realised?
information on size, quality, and change, In estimating the cost or working out a
i.e., how each flow will change over time budget, it is necessary to consider known
(reflecting known plans and forecasts) or or potential barriers to extracting the
might change (by assessing sensitivities) value. While the details will differ by the
regarding production growth, process material or ingredient in question, the
changes, or changes in raw material quality. main categories of barriers to look at are:
The mapping exercise should include any technical, infrastructural, commercial, and
waste materials and by-products that are regulatory.
already finding a useful application today,
since higher-value uses might be available. How should the value be extracted? Here,
a major decision is to determine how to
What is the potential payoff? During or upon handle execution. The terms of reference
completion of the basic maps of material will differ somewhat depending on
flows, the second step is to assess the whether the question of execution is being
potential for value creation. This information raised by a company, an industry (e.g.,
may be a current (market) value/tonne an industry association on behalf of its
of material taken from known metrics for members), or by a ‘region’ involving one
documented processes, some of which may or more government agencies and levels.
already be commercially established (e.g., for At the high level, however, the question
oil trap grease) or a potential value/tonne can initially be broken down to two basic
TOWARDS THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY | 101
choices: Is the resource flow is part of or effort in increasing the number of available
of interest to the core business? If not, is technologies for processing waste
there a third-party provider available or can valorisation, broadening the application of
one be created (as a shared service or via existing and novel technologies, scaling up
regulation)? commercially established processes, and
addressing any number of framing questions,
Assuming execution is to be by a company such as food safety concerns and distribution
in-house, management must then answer challenges.
the following questions (and an industry
association or regulator analogously): Of course, such a framework needs to be
adapted in the practical case to reflect
• Who should we partner with in our own the different interests and horizons of the
value chain and in other value chains to particular group undertaking an analysis, but
cover our needs regarding in-house logistics, identifying wasted resources is of interest
external logistics, processing, and marketing regardless of the differences in perspective.
end products? While a regional government agency may
well lack detailed knowledge of a given
• Who else in the system can provide support industry’s potential resources, it may have an
in the short, medium, and long term? This can advantage in knowing (or having the option
include local/regional/national authorities, to know) the ‘big picture’ and what other
universities and research institutions, and relevant value chains exist and what steps are
industry associations. being taken that might be usefully designed
into an integrated cycle.
If the resource stream is not of interest to a
specific company, the question to answer is
which third-party provider to contract with. If We are all aware that the materials and
no obvious third party exists, there may be a energy leakage from today’s supply chains
role for an industry association to help form is no longer economically viable, and
a ‘utility company’ to extract the value, or cannot be maintained forever. As this shift
modifications to regulations may be needed takes on clearer contours, the value of a
to bridge the market failure. In any case, design paradigm such as that provided by
both deep industry knowledge and excellent the circular economy cannot be overrated.
matchmaking skills are a must. It provides clarity for the multitude of
decision makers who jointly own today’s
What could a continuous improvement complex industrial chains. It links economics
process look like for a new circular flow? and the environment and delivers actionable
In both in-house and third-party solutions, criteria and tools enabling all of us to be
operations should aim for a steady state of a better steward of our supply flows and—
continuous improvement in value creation eventually—the planet.
and cost reduction. Value creation will focus
on seeking higher-value applications for
the same material flows (without ruling out
waste avoidance) and valorising a broader
set of material flows. Cost reduction efforts
will typically focus on improvements in scale,
logistics, and processes—both in how the
waste stream is created (perhaps changing
one step in production, cleaning, or collection
could result in a more valuable waste
stream) and in how the waste/by-product
is processed to recover value. Organisations
like the Institute for Food Research in the
U.K., or, at the European level, ISEKI Food
Association, a not-for-profit organisation
gathering academia and professionals from
the food sector, are putting considerable
102 | TOWARDS THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY
Appendix
Objective
The objective of our material saving analysis was to assess the value of materials that can be saved at
a global level by applying circular practices within several fast-moving consumer goods categories.
In our research, we studied 10 different consumer goods categories: Apparel, Beauty and Personal Care,
Beverages, Consumer Health, Fresh Food, Home Care, Packaged Food, Pet Care, Tissues and Hygiene,
and Tobacco.
Methodology
Cases analysed in depth
We have identified circular opportunities at different steps of the value chain, specifically in production,
packaging, and consumption. For each category and for each of these value-chain steps, we have based
our estimates of the global materials savings and other effects on in-depth analysis of the configurations
presented as examples in Chapter 3:
Breweries for production
Beverage packaging
Food waste for consumption
The textiles category was modelled for the whole textile value chain, i.e., from production to consumption,
due to its particularly differentiated set of opportunities for reuse.
Materials savings calculations
For each of the four cases, we defined and calculated a materials savings ratio as follows:
Materials savings ($)/Cost of materials inputs ($)
This ratio is an indicator of the impact on material flows of circular economy solutions. In order to build a
realistic metric rather than a fictive ratio uncorrelated with business reality, we calculated material savings
based on circular practices, conditional on these practices being profitable.
Scenarios
Both local factors and the status of implementation of circular practices can affect the materials savings
ratios. Hence, we accounted for these differences and modelled four different scenarios.
The first three scenarios are status quo, transition scenario, and an advanced scenario. The fourth scenario
was a fictitious fully linear model that shows the results of having no circular solutions at all.
The status quo corresponds to the current situation observed (information gathered through interviews
and Ellen MacArthur circular team analysis).
The transition scenario represents an intermediate situation in which the activation of circular enablers has
initiated.
The advanced scenario corresponds to a situation in which key circular enablers have been activated and
circular practices are in place.
Geographies
We have defined materials savings as savings from the application of profitable circular practices. Our
analysis has shown that this ratio would be affected by local factors such as labour costs, organisation /
business structures and processes, and infrastructure already in place. To adjust for this, we have varied the
savings ratio across three geographic regions: Canada and the U.S., Europe, and the other large economic
regions (Asia, Africa, and South America).
Scale-up of findings
We have scaled up the materials savings using the cost of materials inputs for each of the ten fast-
moving consumer goods categories. The costs of materials inputs were derived using end consumption
data from Euromonitor for 2011 and the share of materials inputs (in terms of retail price of the products)
for each category. These percentages of material input were obtained through interviews with experts for
each of the ten consumer goods categories.
TOWARDS THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY | 103
Scenarios for more collection and circular treatment rates
Scenario6 End-of-life Collected Reuse1 Recycle2 Cascade3 Components and business model,
products Percent Percent4 Percent4 Percent4 transition and advanced scenario
Millions p.a.
Food and Status quo 12 30 - – 100 •Currently, 47% of municipalities collect; increase to
beverages: 75% in transition and 100% in advanced scenario
households •Households assumed to separate 50% of food waste
and retail7 Transition 12 50 - – 100 produced, rising to 70% (WRAP trials: up to 77%)
•Assume 90% of waste separated by commercial food
waste producers, as easier to achieve by regulation and
Advanced 12 75 - – 100 paying directly for waste
Food and Status quo 2.3 60 100 – 60 •Collection rates increased through better handling
beverages: of brewer’s spent grains (BSG) due to improved
production communication and cross-value-chain collaboration
Transition 2.3 70 100 – 70 •Cascade rate is equal to collected rate due to full reuse
of collected BSG in other value chains
Advanced 2.3 100 100 – 100
Clothing Status quo 1.25 65 73 7 16 •Collection rates increased due to increased
collection schemes both on the kerbside using ‘survival
bags’ and in retail stores (e.g., H&M, M&S)
Transition 1.15 75 73 9 13 •Reuse currently maximised by reprocessors
•Recycling increases with further development
of chemical processes
Advanced 1.05 90 73 12 10
Packaging Status quo 1.0 – – 49-61 – •Transition scenario assumes 50% of all beer in reusable
glass bottles; advanced scenario assumes industry-
wide collaboration for 100% adoption
Transition 0.8 95 50 49-61 – •Recycling rates assumed constant for all packaging
types (e.g., PET, aluminium and glass)
•Collection rates for reuse at 95% via deposit scheme
Advanced 0.1 95 100 49-61 –
1 Reuse refers to both domestic and exported reuse of products in their original form
2 Recycling: A process of recovering and converting materials into new products within the original value stream and industry
3 Cascade: A process of putting materials and components into different uses after end-of-life across different value streams and industries
4 Rates as % of products collected; add up to 100%
5 End-of-life clothing decreases between stages as takeup of clothing rental schemes increases from 0% to 15% to 30%, thereby decreasing annual new
production and end-of-life clothing
6 The cases are based in different locations. Food and beverages (households): UK; Food and beverages (Production): Brazil; Clothing: UK; Packaging: UK
7 Waste from households, food service and restaurants, and retail/distribution
SOURCE: Ellen MacArthur Foundation circular economy team
104 | TOWARDS THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY
Appendix
Continued
Adjustments to assumptions for net material cost savings calculations in different regions
Changing
variables Europe North America Rest of World
Volume • Status quo U.K. 30%, rising • Status quo U.S. 2%, • 12% rising to 30%
Food and
collected to 75% rising to 50%
beverages:
households
and retail Value All materials values assumed to be the same globally
(e.g., electricity, heat, fertiliser)
• Higher collection rate due to • Higher collection rate due to • Lower collection rate due to
Volume
Food and more efficient infrastructures more efficient infrastructures lack of infrastructure
beverages:
production
Value All materials values assumed to be the same globally1
Volume • Medium initial collection rate • Low initial collection rate • High initial collection rate
(25%) rising to 40% and 65% (15%) rising to 35% and 55% (65%) rising to 75% and 90%
in transition and advanced in the transition and advanced
scenarios scenarios
Clothing • Chemical recycling increased • No chemical recycling
from 0% to 9% in advanced
scenario
Value
All materials values assumed to be the same globally (e.g., t-shirts, trousers)
Volume • 7% rising to 34% • 8% rising to 44% • 7% rising to 23%
• Significant opportunities for • Largest opportunity due to low Reuse already prevalent driven
reuse in some countries and base (reuse and recycling) by entrepreneurial sector;
Packaging2
for recycling in all opportunities for recycling
Value All materials values assumed to be the same globally
(e.g. glass, PET, alluminium)
1 Relevant assumption only for the materials savings calculation. The value is derived based on the nutritive value of brewer’s spent grains, minus discount for their wet state
2 Combination of reuse opportunities for beverage packaging and improved recycling opportunities due to better sorting for all other packaging
SOURCE: Ellen MacArthur Foundation circular economy team
TOWARDS THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY | 105
Clothing: economics of circular business activities
USD per product1, status quo and transition scenario
End-of-life optimisation Rental
USD per tonne of end-of-life clothing USD per renter
Status quo Transition Advanced Status Quo Transition Advanced
Revenue 1,973.89 1,938.89 1,909/34 1,009.69 1,009.69 1,009.69
Treatment costs
Buy-back/COGS – – – 403.88 215.84 215.84
Collection and transportation 293.22 293.22 293.22 151.45 144.89 144.89
Pre-processing/sorting 332.10 332.10 332.10 – – –
Activity-specific process2 35.42 24.45 16.97 – 153.23 153.34
Other 21.23 21.23 21.23 282.71 282.71 282.71
Profit 1,291.92 1,266.88 1,245.82 171.65 213.01 213.01
Improvements in product design For rental
and reverse cycle skills • Decrease in cost of goods sold (COGS) due to reduced need to purchase clothing
for each consumer
• Decrease in delivery costs from introduction of delivery system to centralised lockers
For end-of-life optimsation1
• Decrease in revenues from shift in share of flows towards recycling
• Decrease in processing costs from decreased flow towards wipers
1 Describes conventional online retail model based on ownership
2 For end-of-life optimisation, includes cutting of fabric into wipers for portion of collected tonnage used as wipers. For rental, includes laundry charges.
SOURCE: WRAP, Valuing Our Clothes, 2012, WRAP, Textile flow and market development opportunities, 2012, expert interviews,
Ellen MacArthur Foundation circular economy team
106 | TOWARDS THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY
Appendix
Continued
Food and beverages production: economics of circular business activities1
Beer production by-product processing
USD per hectolitre of beer produced
Status quo Transition Advanced
Advanced
Revenue 1.14 1.56 22..0000
Fish food – 0.22 00..6677
Livestock feed 1.11 1.33 11..3333
Costs 0.09 0.13 00..0099
Treatment costs – 0.03 00..0099
Landfill costs 0.20 0.10 –-
Profit 0.94 1.43 11..992277
Improvements in product design and reverse cycle skills
• Increase in revenues
– Due to increased collection rate
– Due to shift to more valuable applications
• Decreased costs due to avoided costs of landfill
1 From a brewery point of view
SOURCE: Euromonitor , Ellen MacArthur Foundation circular economy team analysis
TOWARDS THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY | 107
Food and beverage consumption: economics of circular business activities
Food waste treatment with anaerobic digestion
USD per tonne of food waste
Status quo Transition Advanced
Revenue from electricity, heat 43.82 43.82 43.82
Revenue from fertiliser 0 2.79 5.57
Revenue from feed-in tariff 63.87 63.87 63.87
Total revenue 107.69 110.48 113.26
Costs 63.43 53.45 43.46
Profit 39.87 53.536 69.80
Improvements in product design and reverse cycle skills
• An important parameter in the economics of an AD plant is the load factor, i.e., the time the plant is
operational per year. We assume 95% availability for very good operations, compared to 90% on average
• If plants are rolled out on a large scale, operators can profit from price reductions of components through
bulk ordering. We assume a total reduction by 25% in investment compared with median values found in
the UK today
• Advances in the microbiology of AD could allow higher throughput, reducing investment by 25% overall
General improvements in operational efficiency account for 15% reduction in operating cost compared with
median values today
• Digestate is given away for free in the UK today. In the advanced scenario, we assume that digestate can be
sold at the price of equivalent mineral fertiliser; however, this would require less expensive drying
technologies to allow low-cost distribution and handling. In transition, a 50% discount versus the price of
fertiliser is assumed
SOURCE: WRAP, NNFCC, Ellen MacArthur Foundation circular economy team
108 | TOWARDS THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY
Appendix
Continued
Packaging: economics of circular business activities
Beer packaging reuse
USD per hectolitre of beer produced
Status quo2 Transition Advanced
Costs 27.00 26.70 24.10
Packaging 19.10 11.10 1.00
Transport 5.20 9.50 13.80
Processing and collection 2.80 3.80 4.50
In-store handling – 0.80 1.50
Capital investment – 1.70 3.30
Improvements in product design and reverse cycle skills
• Increase in revenues: no increase in volume sold or price paid has been assumed between packaging options
• Decreased costs
– Due to high reuse rate (up to 30 cycles) facilitated by design of bottles for reuse (durability, anti-scuffing
technologies, labelling to convey branding, etc.).
– High collection rates facilitated by deposit scheme that provides incentive for return to collection point.
– These processing and collection costs do not include the costs of collection for recycling and landfilling
currently borne by the state in most markets, which would raise the savings for society from reusables.
1 For purposes of comparison, costs associated with packaging choice (e.g., materials costs, processing, transport, collection, in-store handling and capital requirements)
are included. Revenues assumed to be equal for all packaging options, therefore not included in the analysis (since it is assumed that price and volume sold would not
change based on packaging choice).
2 Status quo assumed to be current UK market split for beer packaging across glass, aluminium, and PET.
SOURCE: Expert interviews (SABMiller, Coca-Cola, WRAP), Recoup 2011 report, PwC : ‘Reuse and Recycling Systems for Selected Beverage Packaging from
a Sustainability Perspective’, letsrecycle.com, Canadean ‘Global beer trends 2012,’ Ellen MacArthur Foundation circular economy team
TOWARDS THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY | 109
List of experts consulted
Again Nutrient Recovery AB National Grid Tamar Energy
Zsofia Ganrot Marcus Stewart James Russell
Head of Research Department Strategy Development Manager Director
Adnams Brewery Nature Works Textile Recycling Association (TRA)
Emma Hibbert Ady Jager Alan Wheeler
Head of Marketing and Business Development Manager National Liaison Manager
Corporate Affairs
Andy Wood NIOO (Netherlands Institute of The Coca-Cola Company
Chief Executive Ecology) April Crow
Louise Vet Global Director of Sustainable
Aquafil Director Packaging
Giulio Bonazzi Klaus Stadler
President and CEO NNFCC (National Centre for Director Environment & Water
Biorenewable Energy, Fuels and Resources Europe
Association for Organics Materials—UK)
Recycling Lucy Hopwood Trinity Procurement GmbH,
Kiara Zennaro Head of Biomass and Biogas subsidiary of SABMiller plc
Senior Technical Officer John Williams Jon Wilde
Head of Materials for Global Packaging
Axpo Kompogas AG Energy & Industry Sustainability Manager
Michael Oertig
Product Manager Nutreco United Nations Environment
Arjen Roem Program—Division of Technology,
Best Foot Forward Senior Project Manager Industry and Economics
Nicola Jenkin James Lomax
Senior Consultant Oberon Programme Officer (Food Systems,
Andy Logan Agriculture, and Fisheries)
Brasseurs de France VP of Research & Development and
Louis Delalande Board Member University of Cranfield, Sustainable
Secrétaire Général Production and Consumption
Oxford School of Enterprise Raffaella Villa
Brocklesby Limited Sir David King Lecturer in Bioprocess
Robert Brocklesby Professor Technology and Associate Dean
Managing Director
Patagonia University of York, Green Chemistry
Coventry University, Centre for Nellie Cohen Centre of Excellence
Agroecology and Food Security Corporate Environmental Associate James Clark
Julia Wright Todd Copeland Professor and Director
Acting Director Environmental Product Specialist
Rick Ridgeway Worn Again
Ecovative Design VP of Environmental Affairs Cyndi Rhoades
1 For purposes of comparison, costs associated with packaging choice (e.g., materials costs, processing, transport, collection, in-store handling and capital requirements) Eben Bayer CEO and Closed Loop
are included. Revenues assumed to be equal for all packaging options, therefore not included in the analysis (since it is assumed that price and volume sold would not CEO PUMA Executive Officer
change based on packaging choice). Justin DeKoszmovszky Nick Ryan
2 Status quo assumed to be current UK market split for beer packaging across glass, aluminium, and PET. Institute of Science in Society Global Sustainability Strategy Head of Production
Mae Wan Ho & PUMA Vision
Director WRAP (Waste & Resources
SOURCE: Expert interviews (SABMiller, Coca-Cola, WRAP), Recoup 2011 report, PwC : ‘Reuse and Recycling Systems for Selected Beverage Packaging from Queensland University of Action Programme)
a Sustainability Perspective’, letsrecycle.com, Canadean ‘Global beer trends 2012,’ Ellen MacArthur Foundation circular economy team LMB Supplies Technology, School of Design Marcel Arsand
Ross Barry Janis Birkeland Project Manager
Director Professor Mark Barthel
Special Advisor and Head of Design
LMU Munich, Rachel Renault Sarah Clayton
Carson Centre Jean-Philippe Hermine Programme Area Manager
Michel Pimbert Vice President Strategic Gareth Hollinshead
Fellow Environmental Planning Manufacturing Project Manager
Izzie Johnston
London Bio Packaging SABMiller Products and Materials Project
Marcus Hill Gabor Garamszegi Manager
Founder and CEO SVP Corporate Affairs Europe David Moon
Dave Johnstone Programme Manager
Marks & Spencer Sustainable Development Manager Mike Robey
Richard Gillies Peter Koegler Programme Area Manager –
Director of Plan A Senior Manager Environmental Value Home & Workplace Products
Mark Sumner Bastiaan Saris Nina Sweet
Sustainable Raw Materials Innovations Platform Manager Sector Specialist for Organics
Specialist Europe and Energy from Waste
Andy Wales Julia Turner
Michigan State University, Head of Sustainable Development Head of New Programmes
Department of Chemical
Engineering and Materials Swiss Federal Institute of
Science Aquatic Science and Technology
Ramani Narayan Kai Udert
Distinguished Professor Senior Scientist
110 | TOWARDS THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY
List of figures
1 A potential consumption time bomb
2 Path to a circular economy—design and recover consumer goods for reuse or decomposition
3 Application of technology and products have generated impressive results over the last 50 years
4 The circular economy—an industrial system that is restorative by design
5 Main sources of food waste—processing and consumption
6 In clothing, waste occurs mainly at the end of life
7 In packaging, waste occurs mainly at the end of life
8 Food and beverage—production, retail, and household material flows
9 Shifting to a circular system for food waste could create profits of $172 per tonne of food waste
10 Clothing: Current collection and sorting practices prove a profitable circular business model
11 Clothing: Further increasing circularity through greater collection and closed-loop recycling,
both mechanical and chemical
12 Clothing: In the ideal state, biological and technical materials should be kept separate or
separated at end of life using new technologies
13 Clothing: New ‘Netflix for clothes’ is an example model that delivers more choice and more style
for consumers by providing ‘fast fashion’ shared amongst a community of users
14 Clothing: Online rental achieves cost savings in COGS and delivery partially offset by increased
cleaning costs
15 Packaging: There are many considerations when identifying whether a product should be
designed for reuse or decomposition
16 Packaging: Moving to better sorting of all plastic packaging collected in the U.S. generates a
profit of USD 200 per tonne, approximately USD 2.4 bn each year
17 Beer packaging shows potential for far greater circularity in many markets
18 Packaging: Reusable glass bottles offer approximately 20% lower cost than single-use glass
bottles, driven by significantly lower material costs
19 Building blocks of a circular economy—what’s needed to win
20 Adoption of circular setups in relevant fast-moving consumer goods sectors could yield net
material cost savings of USD 595 – 706 billion per year at a global level
21 Path to a circular economy—design and recover consumer goods
for reuse and decomposition
22 The impact of more circular production processes accumulate
across several layers of inputs
23 Revamping industry, reducing material bottlenecks, and creating tertiary sector opportunities
would benefit labour, capital, and innovation
24 Circular economy principles could help regenerate soil to replenish the natural capital
25 Regenerative agricultural practices greatly reduce soil losses and quality deterioration
26 Path to a circular economy—design and recover consumer goods
for reuse and decomposition
Appendices
Scenarios for more collection and circular treatment rates
Adjustments to assumptions for net material cost savings calculations in different regions
Clothing: economics of circular business activities
Food and beverage production: economics of circular business activities
Food consumption waste: economics of circular business activities
Packaging: economics of circular business activities
111 | TOWARDS THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY
About The Ellen MacArthur Foundation
The Ellen MacArthur Foundation was established in 2010 with the aim of inspiring
a generation to re-think, re-design and build a positive future through the vision
of a circular economy, and focuses on three areas to help accelerate the transition
towards it.
Thought leadership—The opportunity for a re-design revolution
The Foundation works to strengthen and communicate the ideas and opportunities
around a circular economy, publishing a variety of materials (reports, case studies,
educational resources…) as well as using creative and social media. It believes that
focusing on designing a restorative model for the future offers a unique opportunity
to engage an entire generation when fused with the ability to transfer knowledge,
co-create ideas and connect people.
Relying on a network of international experts including key circular economy
thinkers and leading academics, the Foundation strives to reinforce the framework’s
coherence as well as continue to develop it whilst making it available to key target
audiences - educational institutions, business, and the public sector.
Business—Catalysing businesses innovation
Since its launch in September 2010 the Foundation has worked together with its
Founding Partners (B&Q, BT/Cisco, National Grid and Renault) to embed circular
economy thinking within four sectors of the economy.
The Foundation, with the support of the Founding Partners, has gone on to create a
programme that focuses on building capacity across the wider business community.
The Circular Economy 100 will provide the opportunity for 100 companies to
stimulate circular economy innovation, foster collaboration, build capacity and
unlock the economic opportunity through accelerator workshops, distance learning
modules and an annual summit, hosted by the Foundation and its Founding Partners.
Education—Curriculum development and in-service teacher training
The Foundation works across secondary school and higher education, supporting
critical and creative thinking around the circular economy. It relies on a portfolio
of over 700 stimulus resources for learners and educators. Equally crucial is the
Foundation’s approach to learning and ‘systems thinking’—the skill of understanding
how individual activities interact within a bigger, interconnected world.
Secondary school programmes are lead by Development Field Officers working
regionally across the UK. The higher education vision is of a global network of
institutions that engage with the key ideas and priorities of the transition to a circular
economy. Alongside this is an international masters-level Fellowship Programme
featuring an annual summer school that will enable fellowship students to develop
circular economy innovation projects within business, engineering and design
disciplines. The Foundation has also developed two post-graduate courses including
a PGCert in the circular economy and Innovation, Enterprise and Circular Economy
MBA, both at Bradford University.
