GRI 12: Coal Sector 2022
12
EFFECTIVE DATE: 1 JANUARY 2024
SECTOR STANDARD
GRI 12: Coal Sector 2022
Sector Standard
Effective Date
This Standard is effective for reports or other materials published on or after 1 January 2024
Responsibility
This Standard is issued by the Global Sustainability Standards Board (GSSB). Any feedback on the GRI Standards
can be submitted to gssbsecretariat@globalreporting.org for the consideration of the GSSB.
Due Process
This Standard was developed in the public interest and in accordance with the requirements of the GSSB Due
Process Protocol. It has been developed using multi-stakeholder expertise, and with regard to authoritative
intergovernmental instruments and widely held expectations of organizations relating to social, environmental, and
economic responsibilities.
Legal Liability
This document, designed to promote sustainability reporting, has been developed by the Global Sustainability
Standards Board (GSSB) through a unique multi-stakeholder consultative process involving representatives from
organizations and report information users from around the world. While the GRI Supervisory Board, Management
Board, and GSSB encourage the use of the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI Standards) and related
Interpretations by all organizations, the preparation and publication of reports based fully or partially on the GRI
Standards and related Interpretations are the full responsibility of those producing them. Neither the GRI Supervisory
Board, Management Board, GSSB, nor Stichting Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) can assume responsibility for any
consequences or damages resulting directly or indirectly from the use of the GRI Standards and related
Interpretations in the preparation of reports, or the use of reports based on the GRI Standards and related
Interpretations.
Copyright and trademark notice
This document is copyright-protected by Stichting Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). The reproduction and distribution
of this document for information and/or use in preparing a sustainability report is permitted without prior permission
from GRI. However, neither this document nor any extract from it may be reproduced, stored, translated, or transferred
in any form or by any means (electronic, mechanical, photocopied, recorded, or otherwise) for any other purpose
without prior written permission from GRI.
Global Reporting Initiative, GRI and logo, GSSB and logo, and GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI
Standards) and logo are trademarks of Stichting Global Reporting Initiative.
© 2025 GRI. All rights reserved.
ISBN 978-90-8866-137-2
3 GRI 12: Coal Sector 2022
Content
Introduction 4
Sector this Standard applies to 4
System of GRI Standards 5
Using this Standard 6
1. Sector profile 8
Sector activities and business relationships 8
The sector and sustainable development 9
2. Likely material topics 12
Topic 12.1 GHG emissions 12
Topic 12.2 Climate adaptation, resilience, and transition 14
Topic 12.3 Closure and rehabilitation 18
Topic 12.4 Air emissions 20
Topic 12.5 Biodiversity 22
Topic 12.6 Waste 24
Topic 12.7 Water and effluents 26
Topic 12.8 Economic impacts 28
Topic 12.9 Local communities 30
Topic 12.10 Land and resource rights 32
Topic 12.11 Rights of indigenous peoples 34
Topic 12.12 Conflict and security 36
Topic 12.13 Asset integrity and critical incident management 38
Topic 12.14 Occupational health and safety 40
Topic 12.15 Employment practices 42
Topic 12.16 Child labor 44
Topic 12.17 Forced labor and modern slavery 46
Topic 12.18 Freedom of association and collective bargaining 48
Topic 12.19 Non-discrimination and equal opportunity 50
Topic 12.20 Anti-corruption 52
Topic 12.21 Payments to governments 55
Topic 12.22 Public policy 58
Glossary 60
Bibliography 72
4 GRI 12: Coal Sector 2022
Introduction
GRI 12: Coal Sector 2022 provides information for organizations in the coal sector about their likely material topics.
These topics are likely to be material for organizations in the coal sector on the basis of the sector’s most significant
impacts on the economy, environment, and people, including on their human rights.
GRI 12 also contains a list of disclosures for organizations in the coal sector to report in relation to each likely material
topic. This includes disclosures from the GRI Topic Standards and other sources.
The Standard is structured as follows:
• Section 1 provides a high-level overview of the coal sector, including its activities, business relationships, context,
and the connections between the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and the likely material
topics for the sector.
• Section 2 outlines the topics that are likely to be material for organizations in the coal sector and therefore
potentially merit reporting. For each likely material topic, the sector’s most significant impacts are described and
disclosures to report information about the organization’s impacts in relation to the topic are listed.
• The Glossary contains defined terms with a specific meaning when used in the GRI Standards. The terms are
underlined in the text and linked to the definitions.
• The Bibliography contains authoritative intergovernmental instruments and additional references used in
developing this Standard, listed by topic. It also lists further resources that the organization can consult.
The rest of the Introduction section provides an overview of the sector this Standard applies to, an overview of the
system of GRI Standards, and further information on using this Standard.
Sector this Standard applies to
GRI 12 applies to organizations undertaking any of the following:
• Exploration, mining, and processing of thermal and metallurgical coal (i.e., lignite, subbituminous coal,
bituminous coal, and anthracite) from underground or open-pit mines.
• Supply of equipment and services to coal mines, such as drilling, exploration, seismic information services, and
mine construction.
• Transportation and storage of coal, such as slurry pipelines.
This Standard can be used by any organization in the coal sector, regardless of size, type, geographic location, or
reporting experience.
The organization must use all applicable Sector Standards for the sectors in which it has substantial activities.
Sector classifications
Table 1 lists industry groupings relevant to the coal sector covered in this Standard in the Global Industry
Classification Standard (GICS®) [4], the Industry Classification Benchmark (ICB) [3], the International Standard
Industrial Classification of All Economic Activities (ISIC) [6], and the Sustainable Industry Classification System
(SICS®) [5]1. The table is intended to assist an organization in identifying whether GRI 12 applies to it and is for
reference only.
Table 1. Industry groupings relevant to the coal sector in other classification systems
CLASSIFICATION CLASSIFICATION CLASSIFICATION NAME
SYSTEM NUMBER
GICS® 10102050 Coal & Consumable Fuels
ICB 60101040 Coal
ISIC B05 Mining of coal and lignite
SICS® EM-CO Coal Operations
1 The relevant industry groupings in the Statistical Classification of Economic Activities in the European Community (NACE) [1] and the North
American Industry Classification System (NAICS) [2] can also be established through available concordances with the International Standard
Industrial Classification (ISIC).
5 GRI 12: Coal Sector 2022
System of GRI Standards
This Standard is part of the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI Standards). The GRI Standards enable an
organization to report information about its most significant impacts on the economy, environment, and people,
including impacts on their human rights, and how it manages these impacts.
The GRI Standards are structured as a system of interrelated standards that are organized into three series: GRI
Universal Standards, GRI Sector Standards, and GRI Topic Standards (see Figure 1 in this Standard).
Universal Standards: GRI 1, GRI 2 and GRI 3
GRI 1: Foundation 2021 specifies the requirements that the organization must comply with to report in accordance
with the GRI Standards. The organization begins using the GRI Standards by consulting GRI 1.
GRI 2: General Disclosures 2021 contains disclosures that the organization uses to provide information about its
reporting practices and other organizational details, such as its activities, governance, and policies.
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 provides guidance on how to determine material topics. It also contains disclosures that
the organization uses to report information about its process of determining material topics, its list of material topics,
and how it manages each topic.
Sector Standards
The Sector Standards provide information for organizations about their likely material topics. The organization uses
the Sector Standards that apply to its sectors when determining its material topics and when determining what to
report for each material topic.
Topic Standards
The Topic Standards contain disclosures that the organization uses to report information about its impacts in relation
to particular topics. The organization uses the Topic Standards according to the list of material topics it has
determined using GRI 3.
Figure 1. GRI Standards: Universal, Sector and Topic Standards
GRI Standards
Universal Standards Sector Standards Topic Standards
Requirements and
principles for using the
GRI Standards
Disclosures about the
reporting organization
Disclosures and
guidance about the
organization's material
topics
Apply all three Universal Use the Sector Standards that Select Topic Standards to report
Standards to your reporting apply to your sectors specific information on your
material topics
6 GRI 12: Coal Sector 2022
Using this Standard
An organization in the coal sector reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards is required to use this Standard
when determining its material topics and then when determining what information to report for the material topics.
Determining material topics
Material topics represent an organization’s most significant impacts on the economy, environment, and people,
including their human rights.
Section 1 of this Standard provides contextual information that can help the organization in identifying and assessing
its impacts.
Section 2 outlines the topics that are likely to be material for organizations in the coal sector. The organization is
required to review each topic described and determine whether it is a material topic for it.
The organization needs to use this Standard when determining its material topics. However, circumstances for each
organization vary, and the organization needs to determine its material topics according to its specific circumstances,
such as its business model; geographic, cultural, and legal operating context; ownership structure; and the nature of
its impacts. Because of this, not all topics listed in this Standard may be material for all organizations in the coal
sector. See GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 for step-by-step guidance on how to determine material topics.
If the organization has determined any of the topics included in this Standard as not material, then the organization is
required to list them in the GRI content index and explain why they are not material.
See Requirement 3 in GRI 1: Foundation 2021 and Box 5 in GRI 3 for more information on using Sector Standards to
determine material topics.
Determining what to report
For each material topic, an organization reports information about its impacts and how it manages these impacts.
Once an organization has determined a topic included in this Standard to be material, the Standard also helps the
organization identify disclosures to report information about its impacts relating to that topic.
For each topic in section 2 of this Standard, a reporting sub-section is included. These sub-sections list disclosures
from the GRI Topic Standards that are relevant to the topic. They may also list additional sector disclosures and
recommendations for the organization to report. This is done in cases where the Topic Standards do not provide
disclosures, or where the disclosures from the Topic Standards do not provide sufficient information about the
organization’s impacts in relation to a topic. These additional sector disclosures and recommendations may be
based on other sources. Figure 2 illustrates how the reporting included in each topic is structured.
The organization is required to report the disclosures from the Topic Standards listed for those topics it has
determined to be material. If any of the Topic Standards disclosures listed are not relevant to the organization’s
impacts, the organization is not required to report them. However, the organization is required to list these disclosures
in the GRI content index and provide ‘not applicable’ as the reason for omission for not reporting the disclosures. See
Requirement 6 in GRI 1: Foundation 2021 for more information on reasons for omission.
The additional sector disclosures and recommendations outline further information which has been identified as
relevant for organizations in the coal sector to report in relation to a topic. The organization should provide sufficient
information about its impacts in relation to each material topic, so that information users can make informed
assessments and decisions about the organization. For this reason, reporting these additional sector disclosures
and recommendations is encouraged, however it is not a requirement.
When the organization reports additional sector disclosures, it is required to list them in the GRI content index (see
Requirement 7 in GRI 1).
If the organization reports information that applies to more than one material topic, it does not need to repeat it for
each topic. The organization can report this information once, with a clear explanation of all the topics it covers.
If the organization intends to publish a standalone sustainability report, it does not need to repeat information that it
has already reported publicly elsewhere, such as on web pages or in its annual report. In such a case, the
organization can report on a required disclosure by providing a reference in the GRI content index as to where this
information can be found (e.g., by providing a link to the web page or citing the page in the annual report where the
information has been published).
7 GRI 12: Coal Sector 2022
See Requirement 5 in GRI 1 for more information on using Sector Standards to report disclosures.
GRI Sector Standard reference numbers
GRI Sector Standard reference numbers are included for all disclosures listed in this Standard, both those from GRI
Standards and additional sector disclosures. When listing the disclosures from this Standard in the GRI content
index, the organization is required to include the associated GRI Sector Standard reference numbers (see
Requirement 7 in GRI 1: Foundation 2021). This identifier helps information users assess which of the disclosures
listed in the applicable Sector Standards are included in the organization’s reporting.
Defined terms
Defined terms are underlined in the text of the GRI Standards and linked to their definitions in the Glossary. The
organization is required to apply the definitions in the Glossary.
References and resources
The authoritative intergovernmental instruments and additional references used in developing this Standard, as well
as further resources that may help report on likely material topics and can be consulted by the organization are listed
in the Bibliography. These complement the references and resources listed in GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 and in the
GRI Topic Standards.
Figure 2. Structure of reporting included in each topic
1 Management of the topic
The organization is required to report how it manages
each material topic using Disclosure 3-3 in GRI 3:
Material Topics 2021.
2 Topic Standards disclosures
Disclosures from the GRI Topic Standards that have
been identified as relevant for organizations in the
5
sector(s) are listed here. When the topic is determined by
the organization as material, it is required to report those
1
disclosures or explain why they are not applicable in the
3 GRI context index. See the Topic Standard for the content
of the disclosure, including requirements,
recommendations, and guidance.
3 Additional sector recommendations
2 Additional sector recommendations may be listed. These
complement Topic Standards disclosures and are
recommended for an organization in the sector(s).
4 Additional sector disclosures
4 Additional sector disclosures may be listed. Reporting
these, together with any Topic Standards disclosures,
ensures the organization reports sufficient information
about its impacts in relation to the topic.
5 Sector Standard reference numbers
GRI Sector Standard reference numbers are required to
be included in the GRI Content Index. This helps
information users assess which of the disclosures listed
in the Sector Standards are included in the organization’s
reporting.
1. Sector profile
8 GRI 12: Coal Sector 2022
1. Sector profile
Coal is a natural resource with its use dating back to ancient history. Coal extraction now represents a sizeable global
sector supplying raw materials for energy generation and metallurgical processes. Thermal coal currently provides
over a third of the global electricity output [22], while metallurgical coal is used primarily for steelmaking, accounting
for 15% of world coal production [18]. Coal is also used to produce synthetic compounds, such as cement, dye, oil,
waxes, pharmaceuticals, and pesticides.
Coal organizations are diverse in nature. While some focus on this sole commodity – combining extraction,
distribution, and consumption channels under single ownership – others are large, diversified organizations,
extracting different commodities or operating across different sectors. Some of the largest organizations in the sector
are state-owned enterprises.
The burning of coal generates significant amounts of greenhouse gas (GHG) and other air emissions and is globally
the largest single source of carbon dioxide (CO ) emissions [20]. The consumption of coal for electricity generation
2
has widely been in decline [17] due to decarbonization efforts and the falling cost of renewables, shifting the focus
towards less GHG intensive energy sources.
Sector activities and business relationships
Through their activities and business relationships, organizations can have an effect on the economy, environment,
and people, and in turn make negative or positive contributions to sustainable development. When determining its
material topics, the organization should consider the impacts of both its activities and its business relationships.
Activities
The impacts of an organization vary according to the types of activities it undertakes. The following list outlines some
of the key activities of the coal sector, as defined in this Standard. This list is not exhaustive.
Prospecting and exploration: Surveying of resources, including feasibility assessments, geologic mapping, aerial
photography, geophysical measuring, and drilling.
Development: Design, planning, and construction of mines, including processing and worker facilities.
Mining: Extraction of coal using surface mining, underground mining, or in situ techniques.
Processing: Crushing, cleaning, and processing coal from unwanted materials; processing it into briquettes, liquids,
and gas or coke for steelmaking.
Closure and rehabilitation: Decommissioning processing facilities, land reclamation and rehabilitation, and closing
and sealing waste facilities.
Transportation: Moving coal to the point of consumption by barge, conveyor belt, train, truck, or ship; or when mixed
with oil or water, transported as coal slurry by pipeline.
Storage: Storage of coal at mining sites or import and export terminals.
Sales and marketing: Selling of coal products for the purpose of, for example, iron and steel production, cement
production, electricity production, and manufacturing.
Business relationships
An organization’s business relationships include relationships that it has with business partners, with entities in its
value chain including those beyond the first tier, and with any other entities directly linked to the organization’s
operations, products, or services. The following types of business relationships are prevalent in the coal sector and
are relevant when identifying the impacts of organizations in the sector.
Joint ventures are common arrangements in coal mining, in which organizations share the costs, benefits, and
liabilities of assets or a project. An organization in the coal sector can be involved with negative impacts as a result of
a joint venture, even if it is a non-operating partner.
Suppliers and contractors are often used in the coal sector during certain project phases, such as construction, or to
9 GRI 12: Coal Sector 2022
provide other services or products. Some of the significant impacts covered in this Standard concern the supply chain.
Customers purchase coal and use it to produce energy, heat, and materials. When combusting coal, they generate
greenhouse gases (GHG) and other air emissions. While the primary responsibility for reducing and managing their
emissions lies with customers, organizations extracting coal are also expected to take actions to reduce emissions
from the combustion of their products and to disclose the related GHG emissions (Scope 3 GHG emissions). As
such, this Standard includes not only direct (Scope 1) and indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions, but also other indirect
(Scope 3) GHG emissions.
The sector and sustainable development
Coal has been a fundamental source of the world’s energy, contributing to economic growth and poverty reduction.
However, coal is a major source of emissions that cause air pollution and anthropogenic climate change, which is
affecting every region across the globe and causing negative impacts on the health, lives, livelihoods, and human
rights of millions of people [36].
The majority of the world’s countries have committed to combating climate change by limiting the increase in global
average temperatures to well below 2°C and pursue efforts to keep the increase at 1.5°C above pre-industrial levels,
as outlined in the Paris Agreement [10]. However, based on the current ambitions to reduce GHG emissions
communicated in the Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs), the average temperature rise is projected to reach
2.7°C by 2100 [9]. This would lead to extreme climate and weather events occurring with increased frequency and
intensity, and other long-term, irreversible impacts such as rising sea levels, melting of ice sheets, and warming and
acidification of oceans.
The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) affirms global warming should be limited to 1.5°C [16],
requiring a 45% reduction in CO emissions by 2030 as compared to 2010 levels, and reaching net-zero by 2050.
2
Consequently, the world needs to transition to a low-carbon economy based on affordable, reliable, and sustainable
energy. This transition would simultaneously address the issue of global air pollution. To achieve net-zero GHG
emissions by 2050, the International Energy Agency (IEA) emphasizes the need to refrain from investments in new
coal production or extensions of current mines [19]. The number of financial institutions divesting from thermal coal is
steadily increasing, as climate policies, such as carbon pricing and air pollution regulations, and restrictions on
public financing and subsidies, undermine the competitiveness of coal as a low-cost fuel [20].
The transition poses extraordinary challenges for organizations in the coal sector. As part of the Glasgow Climate
Pact, nearly 200 countries have committed to 'accelerating efforts towards the phasedown of unabated coal power' [8],
of which 40 countries have national commitments in place to phase out existing unabated coal fired power generation
[29]. As a result, the number of coal operations facing early closure will increase, as will the impacts on workers and
communities. Workers’ employment opportunities in the sector and its supply chains will diminish, and mining
communities dependent on coal may experience high local unemployment rates.
A just transition for workers and communities can be achieved if coal organizations and governments work together. A
just transition is a fair and equitable process to sustainable economies that contributes to decent work, social
inclusion, and poverty eradication. It integrates worker-centric public policies and programs to provide a secure and
decent future for all workers, their families, and the communities that rely on them [35]. It is an integral element of the
Paris Agreement and the Glasgow Pact, and included in the implementation plans of many countries’ NDCs
submitted to date [9].
The time frame for a low-carbon transition will differ between countries according to their context – taking into account
aspects such as level of access to and security of electricity – and differing capabilities to adapt to and mitigate the
impacts of climate change. Consequently, developing economies are expected to reach net-zero later than developed
economies.
Even as the world implements decarbonization policies, coal could remain a significant source of energy in a number
of developing countries for the foreseeable future. Coal activities can provide an important source of revenue and
energy independence, often bringing about local economic development, employment, infrastructure, and services.
Despite bringing income on a country level, resource wealth does not always result in equal distribution of financial
returns. Countries whose economies rely on non-renewable resources are sometimes economically unstable and
prone to conflict. This can be due to, for example, fluctuating commodity prices, opacity over government spending,
conflict over control of resources, and lower levels of economic diversification [26] [37].
Coal mining activities also generate numerous other impacts on the environment and people, including on their
10 GRI 12: Coal Sector 2022
human rights. Coal projects are often large-scale, have long timeframes, and involve major investments and financial
flows. Extracting coal involves removing vast amounts of land and rock from the ground and generating large waste
streams. When mined in remote, protected, or pristine areas, environmental impacts can be particularly severe,
outliving the commercial life of a mine. The influx of a large number of workers to the mining site, together with
increased financial resources and questions regarding land rights, can trigger socioeconomic problems for local
communities and indigenous peoples. Furthermore, inadequate governance of natural resources, including
corruption and mismanagement of revenues, can exacerbate negative impacts and hinder the distribution of wealth to
communities.
Sustainable Development Goals
The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), part of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development adopted by the
193 United Nations (UN) member states, comprise the world’s comprehensive plan of action to achieving
sustainable development [11].
Since the SDGs and targets associated with them are integrated and indivisible, organizations have the potential to
contribute to all SDGs by enhancing their positive impacts, or by preventing and mitigating negative impacts on the
economy, environment, and people.
While the coal sector contributes to meeting the world’s energy demand and has played a role in achieving Goal 7:
Affordable and Clean Energy, extracting and burning coal is the primary contributor to climate change. Climate change
can also exacerbate other challenges, such as achieving access to clean water, food security, and poverty reduction.
Ensuring access to affordable, reliable, and sustainable energy, while mitigating GHG emissions as per Goal 13:
Climate Action and transitioning to a low-carbon economy, is one of the sector’s greatest challenges.
Because the coal sector still provides an essential source of employment and income in many regions, it can make
positive contributions to Goal 8: Decent Work and Economic Growth and Goal 1: No Poverty, if labor conditions and
workplace hazards are adequately managed. However, the accelerated coal mine closures triggered by the transition
to a low-carbon economy will diminish these contributions in the long term and instead pose potential impacts for
affected workers and local communities.
With proper management of environmental impacts, the coal sector can contribute to Goal 11: Sustainable cities and
communities and Goal 12: Responsible Consumption and Production. The sector’s presence can also stimulate
other economic activities that expand infrastructure and services to local communities around mining sites.
Table 2 presents connections between the likely material topics for the coal sector and the SDGs. These linkages
were identified based on an assessment of the impacts described in each likely material topic, the targets associated
with each SDG, and existing mapping undertaken for the sector (see reference [34] in the Bibliography).
Table 2 is not a reporting tool but presents connections between the coal sector’s significant impacts and the goals of
the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. See references [40] and [41] in the Bibliography for information on
reporting progress towards the SDGs using the GRI Standards.
11 GRI 12: Coal Sector 2022
Table 2. Linkages between the likely material topics for the coal sector and the SDGs
Topic 12.1 GHG emissions
Topic 12.2 Climate adaptation,
resilience, and transition
Topic 12.3 Closure and rehabilitation
Topic 12.4 Air emissions
Topic 12.5 Biodiversity
Topic 12.6 Waste
Topic 12.7 Water and effluents
Topic 12.8 Economic impacts
Topic 12.9 Local communities
Topic 12.10 Land and resource rights
Topic 12.11 Rights of indigenous
peoples
Topic 12.12 Conflict and security
Topic 12.13 Asset integrity and critical
incident management
Topic 12.14 Occupational health and
safety
Topic 12.15 Employment practices
Topic 12.16 Child labor
Topic 12.17 Forced labor and modern
slavery
Topic 12.18 Freedom of association
and collective bargaining
Topic 12.19 Non-discrimination and
equal opportunity
Topic 12.20 Anti-corruption
Topic 12.21 Payments to governments
Topic 12.22 Public policy
12 GRI 12: Coal Sector 2022
2. Likely material topics
This section comprises the likely material topics for the coal sector. Each topic describes the sector’s most significant
impacts related to the topic and lists disclosures that have been identified as relevant for reporting on the topic by coal
organizations. The organization is required to review each topic in this section and determine whether it is a material
topic for the organization, and then to determine what information to report for its material topics.
Topic 12.1 GHG emissions
Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions comprise air emissions that contribute to climate change, such as carbon
dioxide (CO) and methane (CH). This topic covers direct (Scope 1) and energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions
2 4
related to an organization’s activities, as well as other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions that occur upstream and
downstream of the organization’s activities.
GHG emissions are the single biggest contributor to climate change, the impacts of which are occurring at an
accelerating rate. Studies show that approximately half of the total anthropogenic carbon dioxide (CO) emissions
2
since 1750 have occurred in the last 40 years, mostly due to the increased use of fossil fuels, including coal [42].
For coal, end-use activities are responsible for the most significant GHG emissions, classified as other indirect
(Scope 3) GHG emissions. These emissions mostly originate from electricity and heat generation, steel production,
and cement manufacturing. Of all energy sources, coal has the highest emissions intensity when combusted, and is
the single largest source of global CO emissions. Thermal coal, which is mainly used for electricity generation,
2
typically releases more than twice the amount of GHGs than natural gas per unit of electricity produced [57]. Steel
production uses metallurgical coal, with three-quarters of the energy demand being met by coal [59]. Emissions from
the iron and steel industry represent around 7% of the global total CO emissions from energy.2
2
Coal mining activities also consume significant amounts of energy. Unless renewable energy sources provide the
necessary power, mining operations generate CO emissions. These are classified as direct (Scope 1) GHG
2
emissions in the case of activities owned or controlled by the organization; and energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG
emissions in the case of purchased or acquired electricity, heating, cooling, and steam consumed by the
organization.
The amount of energy used in coal mining and the resulting CO emissions depend on several factors, such as the
2
method of mining, mine depth, geology, mine productivity, and degree of refining required. The most energy-
consuming activities include transportation, exploration, drilling, excavation, extraction, grinding, crushing, milling,
pumping, and ventilation. Extraction and transportation in underground mines might require more energy than surface
mining due to, for example, greater requirements for hauling, ventilation, and water pumping. Use of explosives for
blasting, mine fires and other incidents, and closure and rehabilitation activities are also sources of GHG emissions.
Besides CO , coal operations also cause the emission of methane (CH ). This GHG has a significantly higher global
2 4
warming potential than CO; when considering its impact over 100 years, one ton of CH is equivalent to 28 to 36 tons
2 4
of CO [49] [61]. Coal mining is estimated to be responsible for 11% of global anthropogenic CH emissions [54],
2 4
although recent measurements indicate that CH emissions from energy production could be underestimated [53].
4
CH emissions from coal mines are released into the atmosphere during and after the mining process. Coal mine
4
methane (CMM) can be released via degasification systems and ventilation air from underground coal mines. CMM
can also be released through seepage from abandoned or closed mines through vent holes or cracks in the ground,
coal seams of surface mines, and fugitive emissions from storage and transportation. Underground mines are
responsible for most of direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions from CH due to the higher gas content of deeper seams.
4
Other GHG emissions related to coal extraction and use include nitrous oxide (N O) and ozone (O).
2 3
2 As per the International Energy Agency (IEA), CO emissions from energy include those from combustion of fossil fuels and industrial process
2
emissions [48].
13 GRI 12: Coal Sector 2022
Reporting on GHG emissions
If the organization has determined GHG emissions to be a material topic, this sub-section lists the disclosures
identified as relevant for reporting on the topic by the coal sector.
STANDARD DISCLOSURE SECTOR
STANDARD
REF. NO.
Management of the topic
GRI 3: Material Disclosure 3-3 Management of material topics 12.1.1
Topics 2021
Topic Standard disclosures
GRI 302: Energy Disclosure 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 12.1.2
2016
Disclosure 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization 12.1.3
Disclosure 302-3 Energy intensity 12.1.4
GRI 305: Disclosure 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 12.1.5
Emissions 2016
Additional sector recommendations
• Report the percentage of gross direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions from CH.
4
• Report the breakdown of gross direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions by type of
source (stationary combustion, process, fugitive).3
Disclosure 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 12.1.6
Disclosure 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 12.1.7
Disclosure 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 12.1.8
References and resources
GRI 302: Energy 2016 and GRI 305: Emissions 2016 list authoritative intergovernmental instruments and additional
references relevant to reporting on this topic.
The additional authoritative instruments and references used in developing this topic, as well as resources that may
be helpful for reporting on GHG emissions by the coal sector are listed in the Bibliography.
3 This additional sector recommendation is based on clause 2.2.5.3 in GRI 305: Emissions 2016.
14 GRI 12: Coal Sector 2022
Topic 12.2 Climate adaptation, resilience, and transition
Climate adaptation, resilience, and transition refer to how an organization adjusts to current and anticipated
climate change-related risks, as well as how it contributes to the ability of societies and economies to withstand
impacts from climate change. This topic covers an organization’s strategy in relation to the transition to a low-
carbon economy and the impacts of that transition on workers and local communities.
Signatories of the Paris Agreement have committed to keeping global warming well below 2°C above pre-industrial
levels, while further pursuing efforts to limit the temperature increase to 1.5°C. However, global fossil fuel reserves
currently available far exceed the maximum amount that can be consumed while remaining within this limit [83]. This
puts pressure on coal organizations to set targets to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, close operations or
modify their business models to reduce the reliance on thermal coal, invest in new technologies to remove carbon
from the atmosphere, and create carbon sinks.
Since coal emits the largest amount of CO and has the highest intensity of emissions per unit of energy among
2
fossil fuels (see also topic 12.1 GHG emissions), burning coal is commonly the first activity governments seek to
suppress in fulfilling their commitments under the Paris Agreement. The low-carbon transition has commenced,
resulting in a declining trend in coal consumption. Coal use is expected to eventually be reduced by 25-90% by 2050,
depending on the scenario used.4
While alternatives for electricity generation exist, steelmakers currently still lack an economically feasible alternative
for coal, leading to a longer transition timeline. Technological solutions for burning coal without emitting CO are
2
being tested, such as carbon capture and storage. However, the technology has not progressed at the rate necessary
to meet the emissions reductions needed, its environmental impacts are still to be assessed, and new investment
remains scarce.
The energy transition presents high risks for organizations, workers, and local communities reliant on coal activities.
As the market for coal shrinks, some organizations will be forced to close operations, which may have an impact on
their financial viability. Organizations are at risk of owning stranded assets or pieces of physical capital that become
drastically reduced in value by the transition, leading to write-offs.
Organizations may mitigate these risks by diversifying away from coal, investing in technological solutions, and driving
innovation through collaborative sectoral partnerships, and focusing on market segments expected to remain
operational for longer. However, selling existing coal assets to other entities to reduce the organization’s GHG
emissions, instead of closing operations, can be detrimental to climate change mitigation efforts. Offloading coal
assets to organizations that continue to extract coal does not reduce overall emissions but can instead result in
increased emissions. If the organization shifts closure and rehabilitation responsibilities to less accountable and
inexperienced operators, this may also weaken the management of environmental and socioeconomic impacts
resulting from eventual closure (see also topic 12.3 Closure and rehabilitation).
The transition to a low-carbon economy may affect employment, government revenues, and economic development in
regions where the sector operates. More frequent closures are less likely to be counterbalanced by openings, as has
been the case in the past. Workers may face issues related to employability, reskilling, and desirable re-employment
opportunities. The lack of adequate provisions for closure and rehabilitation may also result in an economic burden
for governments and local communities, particularly in countries where coal production provides a large percentage
of revenues.
To achieve a just transition to a low-carbon economy, the different dependency levels of workers, local communities,
and national economies on the coal sector needs to be recognized. It also calls for the creation of quality jobs for
those affected. Examples of actions that organizations may take to contribute to a just transition include providing
adequate advance notice of closures; collaborating with governments and unions; advocating for climate consistent
policy (see also topic 12.22 Public policy); retraining, reskilling, and redeploying workers; and making alternative
investments in the affected communities. Meaningful, early consultations with stakeholders and local communities
have also been identified as crucial to achieving a just transition (see also topic 12.3 Closure and rehabilitation). The
transition can also bring opportunities to reinvigorate economic activity and provide new employment opportunities
and skills development.
4 As per the three main scenarios laid out by the International Energy Agency (IEA): Stated Policies Scenario (STEPS), Announced Pledges Scenario
(APS), and Net-Zero Emissions by 2050 scenario (NZE) [76].
15 GRI 12: Coal Sector 2022
Box 1. Transition plans and scenario analysis
Organizations in high-emitting sectors are increasingly expected to disclose a transition plan, which is 'an aspect of
an organization’s business strategy that lays out a set of targets and actions supporting its transition toward a low-
carbon economy' [91]. According to the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), information
users are looking for information on organizations’ plans to adjust their strategies or business models, and the
types of actions needed to reduce the risks and increase opportunities set by the low-carbon transition. Transition
planning can, for example, focus on achieving net-zero emissions.
Scenario analysis allows consideration of alternative forms of future states simultaneously, and can be used to
explore the risks that transitioning to a low-carbon economy poses to coal organizations. Organizations typically
define scenarios according to the transition speed, expressed in the resulting average global temperature
changes. A scenario compatible with the Paris Agreement will require a temperature rise well below 2ºC. Other
scenarios can be defined according to an organization’s national context. The organization can then translate the
expected reductions in GHG emissions compatible with such a temperature rise into expected revenue. For more
guidance, see TCFD, The Use of Scenario Analysis in Disclosure of Climate-Related Risks and Opportunities, 2017
[92].
16 GRI 12: Coal Sector 2022
Reporting on climate adaptation, resilience, and transition
If the organization has determined climate adaptation, resilience, and transition to be a material topic, this sub-
section lists the disclosures identified as relevant for reporting on the topic by the coal sector.
STANDARD DISCLOSURE SECTOR
STANDARD
REF. NO.
Management of the topic
GRI 3: Material Disclosure 3-3 Management of material topics 12.2.1
Topics 2021
Additional sector recommendations
• Report whether the organization has a transition plan in place. If so, report
whether it is a scheduled resolution item at annual general meetings of
shareholders (AGM), if applicable.
• Describe policies, commitments, and actions of the organization to prevent or
mitigate the impacts of the transition to a low-carbon economy on workers and
local communities.
• Report the level and function within the organization that has been assigned
responsibility for managing risks and opportunities due to climate change.
• Describe the highest governance body’s oversight in managing risks and
opportunities due to climate change.
• Report whether responsibility to manage climate change-related impacts is
linked to performance assessments or incentive mechanisms, including in the
remuneration policies for highest governance body members and senior
executives.
• Describe the climate change-related scenarios used to assess the resilience
of the organization’s strategy, including a 2°C or lower scenario.
Topic Standard disclosures
GRI 201: Disclosure 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to 12.2.2
Economic climate change
Performance
2016
Additional sector recommendations
• Report the emissions potential for proven and probable reserves.5
• Report the internal carbon-pricing and coal pricing assumptions that have
informed the identification of risks and opportunities due to climate change.
• Describe how climate-change related risks and opportunities affect or could
affect the organization’s operations or revenue, including:
- development of currently proven and probable reserves;
- potential write-offs and early closure of existing assets;
- coal production volumes for the current reporting period and projected
volumes for the next five years.
• Report the percentage of capital expenditure (CapEx) that is allocated to
investments in:
- prospection, exploration, acquisition, and development of new reserves;
- expansion of current coal mines;
- energy from renewable sources (by type of source);
- technologies to remove CO from the atmosphere and nature-based
2
solutions to mitigate climate change;
- research and development initiatives that can address the organization’s
risks related to climate change.
• Report net mass of CO in metric tons captured and stored,6 broken down by:
2
- Carbon captured at the point source;7
- Carbon captured directly from the atmosphere.
17 GRI 12: Coal Sector 2022
STANDARD DISCLOSURE SECTOR
STANDARD
REF. NO.
• Report planned, ongoing, or completed divestments of coal assets. For each
divestment:
- describe how the organization considered its policy commitments for
responsible business conduct;8
- report whether there are provisions in place to ensure that negative impacts
from closure are addressed, and that existing closure and rehabilitation
plans are followed by the entity acquiring the asset(s).
GRI 305: Disclosure 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 12.2.3
Emissions 2016
Additional sector recommendations
• Report how the goals and targets for GHG emissions are set, specify whether
they are informed by scientific consensus, and list any authoritative
intergovernmental instruments or mandatory legislation the goals and targets
are aligned with.
• Report the Scopes (1, 2, 3) of GHG emissions, activities, and business
relationships to which the goals and targets apply.
• Report the baseline for the goals and targets and the timeline for achieving
them.
Additional sector disclosures
Describe the organization’s approach to public policy development and lobbying on climate change, 12.2.4
including:
• the organization’s stance on significant issues related to climate change that are the focus of its
participation in public policy development and lobbying, and any differences between these
positions and its stated policies, goals, or other public positions;
• whether it is a member of, or contributes to, any representative associations or committees that
participate in public policy development and lobbying on climate change, including:
- the nature of this contribution;
- any differences between the organization’s stated policies, goals, or other public positions on
significant issues related to climate change; and the positions of the representative
associations or committees.9
References and resources
GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016 and GRI 305: Emissions 2016 list authoritative intergovernmental instruments
and additional references relevant to reporting on this topic.
The additional authoritative instruments and references used in developing this topic, as well as resources that may
be helpful for reporting on climate adaptation, resilience, and transition by the coal sector are listed in the
Bibliography.
5 The definition of reserves used by the organization for this additional sector recommendation should be the same as the definition used in its
consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents.
6 Organizations should report the mass of the CO captured using carbon capture and storage less the mass of CO emitted as a result of or during the
2 2
process, sometimes also known as ‘net reduction of emissions’ [71].
7 Point sources include industrial and energy related sources.
8 Policy commitments for responsible business conduct and commitment to respect human rights are reported in Disclosure 2-23 Policy commitments
in GRI 2: General Disclosures 2021.
9 These additional sector disclosures are based on clauses 1.2.1 and 1.2.2 in GRI 415: Public Policy 2016.
18 GRI 12: Coal Sector 2022
Topic 12.3 Closure and rehabilitation
At the end of commercial use, organizations are expected to close assets and facilities and rehabilitate
operational sites. Impacts can occur during and after closure. This topic covers an organization’s approach to
closure and rehabilitation, including how the organization considers the impacts on the environment, local
communities, and workers.
Following the closure of coal mines, potential environmental impacts include soil and water contamination, changes
to landforms, and disturbance of biodiversity and wildlife. Closure can also lead to lasting socioeconomic
consequences for local communities (see also topic 12.9). Preparation for and implementation of responsible
closure is becoming increasingly important for the coal sector due to the need to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG)
emissions and the transition to a low-carbon economy (see topic 12.2 Climate adaptation, resilience, and transition).
This urgency will lead to more frequent and earlier closures of coal activities.
Impacts from closure can differ between surface and underground mining. For example, surface mining requires
more land use and substantial rehabilitation, whereas abandoned underground mines may emit coal mine methane
even after active mining has ceased, making an ongoing contribution to GHG emissions (see also topic 12.1).
Closure often requires planning already in the early phases of a project’s life cycle to anticipate potential impacts,
including impacts on local communities and their livelihoods. Closure and rehabilitation activities can include:
• stabilization of open-pit or underground workings, such as landfilling to prevent subsidence;
• removal or conversion of infrastructure to ensure the safety of people;
• rehabilitation of waste rock stockpiles and tailings facilities to control erosion and land degradation;
• management of waste, surface water, and groundwater quality issues resulting from abandoned mine drainage,
waste rock, and leaching from tailings (see also topics 12.6 Waste and 12.7 Water and effluents); and
• post-closure environmental and socio-economic monitoring.
Once complete, closure and rehabilitation of operational sites should result in a stable and sustainable ecosystem
compatible with planned post-closure land use that considers the needs of local stakeholders. Failure to close
assets and rehabilitate sites effectively can render land unusable for other productive uses and can result in health
and safety hazards due to contamination or the presence of hazardous materials.
Impacts from closure can be exacerbated if there is insufficient notice or lack of adequate planning for economic
revitalization, social protection, and labor transition. Without clearly assigned responsible parties or allocated funds,
closed coal facilities can leave a legacy of environmental issues and financial burden for communities and
governments.
However, the closure and rehabilitation phase may also offer additional employment opportunities. This can involve
an influx of additional workers for an extended period, potentially exacerbating other environmental pressures. Once
this phase is completed, workers may be retrenched and local communities face economic downturns and social
disruption. This is especially relevant for those communities that depend on the coal sector for employment, income,
taxes and other payments, community development, and other benefits.
A collaboration between local and national governments, coal organizations, workers, and unions is essential to
mitigate negative impacts and ensure a just transition that enables decent jobs, social inclusion and economic
opportunities while transitioning to a low-carbon economy [101]. Examples of actions organizations may take include
offering early retirement, reskilling, retraining, worker transfer programs, and relocation assistance programs.
19 GRI 12: Coal Sector 2022
Reporting on closure and rehabilitation
If the organization has determined closure and rehabilitation to be a material topic, this sub-section lists the
disclosures identified as relevant for reporting on the topic by the coal sector.
STANDARD DISCLOSURE SECTOR
STANDARD
REF. NO.
Management of the topic
GRI 3: Material Disclosure 3-3 Management of material topics 12.3.1
Topics 2021
Additional sector recommendations
• Describe the approach to engaging with local communities and other
relevant stakeholders on closure and post-closure planning and
implementation, including post-mining land use.
Topic Standard disclosures
GRI 402: Disclosure 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes 12.3.2
Labor/Management
Additional sector recommendations
Relations 2016
• Describe the approach to engaging with workers in advance of significant
operational changes.
GRI 404: Training Disclosure 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition 12.3.3
and Education assistance programs
2016
Additional sector recommendations
• Describe the labor transition plans in place to help workers manage the
transition to a post-closure phase of operations (e.g., redeployment,
assistance with re-employment, resettlement, and redundancy payments).
Additional sector disclosures
List the operational sites that: 12.3.4
• have closure and rehabilitation plans in place;
• have been closed;
• are undergoing closure activities.
Report the total monetary value of financial provisions made by the organization for closure and 12.3.5
rehabilitation, including environmental and socioeconomic post-closure monitoring and aftercare for
operational sites, and provide a breakdown of this total by project.
Describe non-financial provisions made by the organization to manage the local community's 12.3.6
socioeconomic transition to a sustainable post-mining economy, including collaborative efforts,
projects, and programs.
References and resources
GRI 402: Labor/Management Relations 2016 and GRI 404: Training and Education 2016 list authoritative
intergovernmental instruments relevant to reporting on this topic.
The additional references used in developing this topic, as well as resources that may be helpful for reporting on
closure and rehabilitation by the coal sector are listed in the Bibliography.
20 GRI 12: Coal Sector 2022
Topic 12.4 Air emissions
Air emissions include pollutants that have negative impacts on air quality and ecosystems, including human and
animal health. This topic covers impacts from emissions of sulfur oxides (SO), nitrogen oxides (NO), particulate
x x
matter (PM), volatile organic compounds (VOC), carbon monoxide (CO), and heavy metals, such as lead, mercury,
and cadmium.
In addition to greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, coal is a significant source of anthropogenic air emissions
classified as pollutants. Globally, air pollution causes acute health problems and millions of deaths annually by
contributing to heart and lung diseases, strokes, respiratory infections, and neurological damage [114]. Air emissions
disproportionately affect children, the elderly, and the poor, including local communities adjacent to operational sites.
Air pollution also causes an economic burden on communities and governments resulting from, for example,
premature mortality, increased healthcare costs, loss of productivity, and reduced crop yields [109].
Air emissions from coal activities include CO, NO, PM, and SO. These emissions can occur in the form of
x 2
evaporation from tailings ponds or waste areas; fugitive dust emissions from drilling, blasting, storage,
transportation, loading, and unloading; refining and processing activities; transportation of supplies and products;
and incidents, such as mine fires.
In addition to health effects, the emission of pollutants also has impacts on ecosystems. For example, nitrogen
emissions and mercury that enter the oceans or waterways can have negative impacts on marine life. NO is also a
x
major cause of ground-level ozone, commonly known as smog. Sulfur oxides can lead to acid rain and increase
ocean acidification. Negative impacts from acid rain and ground-level ozone include the degradation of water and soil,
impairing flora and fauna of their ability to function and grow. Some air pollutants, including methane, black carbon,
and ozone are also short-lived climate pollutants that contribute to climate change (see also topic 12.1 GHG
emissions).
Arsenic, cadmium, lead, mercury, selenium, and other heavy metals are other pollutants associated with coal use.
The impurities and chemical components found in coal are largely responsible for the PM, SO , and mercury
2
emissions formed when combusted, some of which can be mitigated by coal washing [107]. The emissions from
coal combustion are caused by organizations in other sectors, such as utilities and steel, but their negative impacts
are directly linked to coal mining organizations.
21 GRI 12: Coal Sector 2022
Reporting on air emissions
If the organization has determined air emissions to be a material topic, this sub-section lists the disclosures
identified as relevant for reporting on the topic by the coal sector.
STANDARD DISCLOSURE SECTOR
STANDARD
REF. NO.
Management of the topic
GRI 3: Material Disclosure 3-3 Management of material topics 12.4.1
Topics 2021
Additional sector recommendations
• Describe actions taken by the organization to prevent or mitigate potential
negative impacts on local communities and workers from particulate matter
(PM) emissions from coal dust.
• Describe actions taken to improve coal quality to reduce harmful air emissions
in the use phase.
Topic Standard disclosures
GRI 305: Disclosure 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NO ), sulfur oxides (SO ), and other significant 12.4.2
X X
Emissions 2016 air emissions
References and resources
GRI 305: Emissions 2016 lists authoritative intergovernmental instruments and additional references relevant to
reporting on this topic.
The additional references used in developing this topic, as well as resources that may be helpful for reporting on air
emissions by the coal sector are listed in the Bibliography.
22 GRI 12: Coal Sector 2022
Topic 12.5 Biodiversity
Biodiversity is the variability among living organisms. It includes diversity within species, between species and of
ecosystems. Biodiversity not only has intrinsic value, but is also vital to human health, food security, economic
prosperity, and mitigation of climate change and adaptation to its impacts. This topic covers impacts on
biodiversity, including on plant and animal species, genetic diversity, and natural ecosystems.
Coal activities typically require large-scale infrastructure development that has direct, indirect, and cumulative impacts
on biodiversity in the short and long term. Biodiversity impacts from coal activities include contamination of air, soil,
and water; deforestation; soil erosion; and sedimentation of waterways. Other impacts can include animal mortality or
increased vulnerability to predators, habitat fragmentation and conversion, and the introduction of invasive species
and pathogens.
Impacts on biodiversity can limit the availability, accessibility, or quality of natural resources, which may affect the well-
being and livelihoods of local communities and indigenous peoples (see also topics 12.9 Local communities and
12.11 Rights of indigenous peoples). Impacts can be exacerbated when activities occur in protected areas or areas of
high biodiversity value, and may extend well beyond the geographic boundaries of activities and the lifetime of
operational sites (see also topic 12.3 Closure and rehabilitation).
Different mining methods present distinct risks for biodiversity. Open-pit mines generate more severe impacts than
underground mines due to the progressive deepening and widening of the mining site, increasing affected areas over
time. Impacts on biodiversity can result from:
• land clearance for pits, access routes, and expansion into new areas;
• habitat fragmentation from access roads and other linear infrastructure;
• ground subsidence from underground mines;
• disruption of surface water, wetland, and groundwater ecosystems; and
• effluent discharges, groundwater, or surface water contamination from acid mine drainage, tailings ponds, or
overburden piles (see also topics 12.6 Waste and 12.7 Water and effluents).
The sector’s activities can also contribute to cumulative impacts on biodiversity. For example, when coal activities
expand and new access routes are installed, the resulting land clearance not only causes habitat fragmentation and
conversion, but can also increase the area’s use or encourage other sectors to establish operations in the same
areas, leading to intensified impacts. Changes to land use to accommodate open-pit mining can exacerbate the
effects of climate change if they result in the removal of carbon sinks. In turn, climate change is likely to affect all
aspects of biodiversity, including individual organisms, populations, species distribution, and the composition and
function of ecosystems, and the impacts are anticipated to worsen with increasing temperatures (see also topics
12.1 GHG emissions and 12.2 Climate adaptation, resilience, and transition).
To limit and manage impacts on biodiversity, many coal organizations use the mitigation hierarchy tool to help inform
their actions. The tool presents a prioritized sequence of measures for the sustainable management of natural
resources, with preventive actions taking precedence over remediation. Priority is given to avoidance and, where
avoidance is not possible, to minimization of impacts. Remediation measures are only feasible after the adoption of
all preventative steps. Remediation includes the rehabilitation or restoration of degradation or damage, and offsetting
residual impacts after all other measures have been applied [121].
23 GRI 12: Coal Sector 2022
Reporting on biodiversity
If the organization has determined biodiversity to be a material topic, this sub-section lists the disclosures identified
as relevant for reporting on the topic by the coal sector.
STANDARD DISCLOSURE SECTOR
STANDARD
REF. NO.
Management of the topic
GRI 3: Material Disclosure 3-3 Management of material topics 12.5.1
Topics 2021
Additional sector recommendations
• Describe policies and commitments to achieving no net loss or a net gain to
biodiversity on operational sites; and report whether these commitments apply
to existing and future operations and to operations beyond areas of high
biodiversity value.
• Report whether application of the mitigation hierarchy has informed actions to
manage biodiversity-related impacts.
Topic Standard disclosures
GRI 304: Disclosure 304-1 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, 12.5.2
Biodiversity protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas
2016
Disclosure 304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products and services on 12.5.3
biodiversity
Additional sector recommendations
• Report significant impacts on biodiversity with reference to affected habitats
and ecosystems.
Disclosure 304-3 Habitats protected or restored 12.5.4
Disclosure 304-4 IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species 12.5.5
with habitats in areas affected by operations
References and resources
GRI 304: Biodiversity 2016 lists authoritative intergovernmental instruments and additional references relevant to
reporting on this topic.
The additional authoritative instruments and references used in developing this topic, as well as resources that may
be helpful for reporting on biodiversity by the coal sector are listed in the Bibliography.
24 GRI 12: Coal Sector 2022
Topic 12.6 Waste
Waste refers to anything that a holder discards, intends to discard, or is required to discard. When inadequately
managed, waste can have negative impacts on the environment and human health, which can extend beyond the
locations where waste is generated and discarded. This topic covers impacts from waste, including as a result of
construction and rehabilitation activities.
Coal activities typically generate high volumes of waste, including hazardous waste. The largest waste streams derive
from the extraction or processing of coal and comprise overburden, rock waste, and tailings. These waste streams
can also contain toxic or noxious substances, including heavy metals. They may contaminate surface water,
groundwater, seawater, and food sources, and have negative impacts on plant and animal species as well as human
health. Further effects can be loss of land productivity and erosion. The severity of impacts can depend on an
organization’s approach to waste management, regulation, and the availability of recovery and disposal facilities near
coal activities.
Overburden from surface mining is usually stored on adjacent land until it can backfill the pit once mining is complete.
Disposal options are limited for some surface mining techniques, such as mountain-top removal since the
overburden cannot be returned to the pit. In these cases, the disposal method consists of adjacent valley filling,
leading to impacts such as the burial of waterways and concentration of noxious substances harmful to ecosystems
and humans (see also topics 12.5 Biodiversity and 12.7 Water and effluents).
Coal tailings slurry, a residual waste generated by coal processing, is often discarded into ponds, filtered, stored in
heaps, or disposed of in underground voids. Surface tailings storage facilities contained by tailings dams can cover
vast areas. Tailings without harmful substances can be drained from the facility and then reshaped, covered with soil,
and vegetated. However, tailings pose a health risk for local communities when they contain heavy metals, cyanide,
chemical-processing agents, sulfides, or suspended solids that pollute the environment, including groundwater and
surface water (see also topics 12.9 Local communities and 12.13 Asset integrity and critical incident management).
Rock waste and coarse tailings are usually managed on heaps or disposed of in constructed waste rock dumps or
former open-pit operations. Further environmental impacts from rock dumps include dust that can be carried by wind
or rainwater, affecting air quality, watercourses, or lands.
The nature and quantity of waste generated often requires management beyond the productive phase of a mining
operation. At the end of a coal exploration or extraction project, closure can yield significant waste with lasting
environmental and socioeconomic impacts (see also topic 12.3 Closure and rehabilitation). Other typical wastes from
coal operations include waste oils and chemicals, spent catalysts, solvents, other industrial wastes, and packaging
and construction wastes.
25 GRI 12: Coal Sector 2022
Reporting on waste
If the organization has determined waste to be a material topic, this sub-section lists the disclosures identified as
relevant for reporting on the topic by the coal sector.
STANDARD DISCLOSURE SECTOR
STANDARD
REF. NO.
Management of the topic
GRI 3: Material Disclosure 3-3 Management of material topics 12.6.1
Topics 2021
Topic Standard disclosures
GRI 306: Waste Disclosure 306-1 Waste generation and significant waste-related impacts 12.6.2
2020
Disclosure 306-2 Management of significant waste-related impacts 12.6.3
Disclosure 306-3 Waste generated 12.6.4
Additional sector recommendations
When reporting the composition of the waste generated, include a breakdown of
the following waste streams, if applicable:
• overburden;
• rock waste;
• tailings.
Disclosure 306-4 Waste diverted from disposal 12.6.5
Additional sector recommendations
When reporting the composition of the waste diverted from disposal, include a
breakdown of the following waste streams, if applicable:
• overburden;
• rock waste;
• tailings.
Disclosure 306-5 Waste directed to disposal 12.6.6
Additional sector recommendations
When reporting the composition of the waste directed to disposal, include a
breakdown of the following waste streams, if applicable:
• overburden;
• rock waste;
• tailings.
References and resources
GRI 306: Waste 2020 lists authoritative intergovernmental instruments and additional references relevant to reporting
on this topic.
The additional authoritative instruments and references used in developing this topic, as well as resources that may
be helpful for reporting on waste by the coal sector are listed in the Bibliography.
26 GRI 12: Coal Sector 2022
Topic 12.7 Water and effluents
Recognized as a human right, access to fresh water is essential for human life and well-being. The amount of
water withdrawn and consumed by an organization and the quality of its discharges can have impacts on
ecosystems and people. This topic covers impacts related to the withdrawal and consumption of water and the
quality of water discharged.
Coal activities can reduce water availability for local communities and other sectors that rely on water. They can have
impacts on the quality of surface water, groundwater, and seawater, which can translate into long-term impacts on
ecosystems and biodiversity, cause health and development problems for humans, and impair food security.
Water is used in coal activities for cooling and cutting; dust suppression during mining and hauling; washing to
improve coal quality; re-vegetation of surface mines; and long-distance coal slurry transportation. The amount of water
needed for activities depends on whether mining occurs on the surface or underground and on operational efficiency.
The amount of water withdrawn also varies according to an organization’s ability to substitute the use of freshwater,
the quality of water required, reservoir characteristics, and recycling infrastructure.
A coal organization’s impacts on water also depend on the quantity of local water resources. A large proportion of the
world’s coal resources are found in areas that are arid or experience water stress. In such areas, the sector’s
activities are likely to increase competition for water. This may exacerbate tensions between, as well as within,
sectors or local communities. Droughts, floods, and other extreme weather events due to climate change will likely
pose more frequent challenges to water availability and quality in the future.
Coal activities’ impacts on water quality can be due to leaching from tailings, failure of tailings facilities, and acid mine
drainage containing acidic water and heavy metals. Certain mining methods can involve substantive vegetation
clearance and land-use changes, leading to erosion and sediment flows (see also topic 12.5 Biodiversity), which
together with alterations in water flows can affect water quality and aquatic and terrestrial habitats. Underground
operations might also disrupt or contaminate aquifers.
Transportation accidents and related coal spills can contaminate waterways and wetlands with harmful materials,
such as arsenic, lead, mercury, and sulfur compounds (see also topic 12.13 Asset integrity and critical incident
management).
27 GRI 12: Coal Sector 2022
Reporting on water and effluents
If the organization has determined water and effluents to be a material topic, this sub-section lists the disclosures
identified as relevant for reporting on the topic by the coal sector.
STANDARD DISCLOSURE SECTOR
STANDARD
REF. NO.
Management of the topic
GRI 3: Material Disclosure 3-3 Management of material topics 12.7.1
Topics 2021
Topic Standard disclosures
GRI 303: Water Disclosure 303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource 12.7.2
and Effluents
2018
Additional sector recommendations
• Describe actions taken to prevent or mitigate negative impacts from acid mine
drainage.
Disclosure 303-2 Management of water discharge-related impacts 12.7.3
Disclosure 303-3 Water withdrawal 12.7.4
Disclosure 303-4 Water discharge 12.7.5
Disclosure 303-5 Water consumption 12.7.6
References and resources
GRI 303: Water and Effluents 2018 lists authoritative intergovernmental instruments and additional references
relevant to reporting on this topic.
The additional references used in developing this topic, as well as resources that may be helpful for reporting on
water and effluents by the coal sector are listed in the Bibliography.
28 GRI 12: Coal Sector 2022
Topic 12.8 Economic impacts
An organization’s impacts on the economy refers to how the value it generates affects economic systems, for
example, as a result of its procurement practices and employment of workers. Infrastructure investments and
services supported by an organization can also have impacts on a community’s well-being and long-term
development. This topic covers economic impacts at local, national, and global levels.
Coal activities can be an important source of investment and income for local communities, countries, and regions.
Impacts can vary according to the scale of operations, stimulation of other economic activity, and effectiveness of
management of coal-related revenues by local governments. In some resource-rich countries, investments in the
development of coal resources and revenues from mining contribute significantly to the gross domestic product.
However, mismanagement of these revenues can harm economic performance and lead to macroeconomic
instability and distortions (see also topic 12.21 Payments to governments). Economies dependent on coal can also
be vulnerable to commodity price and production fluctuations.
The coal sector can make positive contributions by providing revenues derived from paying taxes and royalties,
through local procurement, and providing local employment. Local procurement of goods and services can support
supplier development and have a significant economic impact. Local employment, in turn, can lead to increased
purchasing power in the community and therefore stimulate local businesses. Coal organizations can further
generate benefits by investing in infrastructure, such as power utilities that improve access to energy, or public
services.
The extent to which local communities stand to benefit from coal activities depends on the communities’ existing
development and industrialization levels, their capacity to offer qualified workers for the new employment
opportunities, and the commitment of organizations in the coal sector to train local workers. The net employment
impact also depends on how the coal sector employment affects existing jobs in other sectors, as well as coal
organizations’ employment practices (see also topic 12.15). For example, a fly-in fly-out work arrangement can offset
pressures associated with influxes of people in small communities while still supplying the necessary workers.
However, this arrangement reduces the employment opportunities available to local communities, detracting from the
potential economic benefits.
The introduction of coal activities can generate negative impacts on local communities, such as economic disparity,
with vulnerable groups often being disproportionately affected (see also topics 12.9 Local communities and 12.11
Rights of indigenous peoples). An influx of external workers can increase pressure on housing, infrastructure, and
public services. Local communities may also have to deal with environmental legacy costs related to contamination or
lack of proper rehabilitation after closure (see also topic 12.3 Closure and rehabilitation).
The transition to a low-carbon economy continues to decrease activity in the coal sector, making communities and
countries that depend on the sector for revenues or employment vulnerable to the resulting economic downturn (see
also topic 12.2 Climate adaptation, resilience, and transition). To ensure a just transition, collaboration between local
and national governments and coal organizations is essential to enable decent jobs, social inclusion, and economic
opportunities.
29 GRI 12: Coal Sector 2022
Reporting on economic impacts
If the organization has determined economic impacts to be a material topic, this sub-section lists the disclosures
identified as relevant for reporting on the topic by the coal sector.
STANDARD DISCLOSURE SECTOR
STANDARD
REF. NO.
Management of the topic
GRI 3: Material Disclosure 3-3 Management of material topics 12.8.1
Topics 2021
Additional sector recommendations
• Describe the community development programs in place that are intended to
enhance positive economic impacts for local communities, including the
approach to providing employment, procurement, and training opportunities.
Topic Standard disclosures
GRI 201: Disclosure 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 12.8.2
Economic
Performance
Additional sector recommendations
2016 • Report direct economic value generated and distributed (EVG&D) by project.
GRI 202: Market Disclosure 202-2 Proportion of senior management hired from the local 12.8.3
Presence 2016 community
GRI 203: Indirect Disclosure 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported 12.8.4
Economic
Disclosure 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts 12.8.5
Impacts 2016
GRI 204: Disclosure 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers 12.8.6
Procurement
Practices 2016
References and resources
GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016 and GRI 202: Market Presence 2016 list authoritative intergovernmental
instruments and additional references relevant to reporting on this topic.
The additional authoritative instruments and references used in developing this topic, as well as resources that may
be helpful for reporting on economic impacts by the coal sector are listed in the Bibliography.
30 GRI 12: Coal Sector 2022
Topic 12.9 Local communities
Local communities comprise individuals living or working in areas that are affected or that could be affected by
an organization’s activities. An organization is expected to conduct community engagement to understand the
vulnerabilities of local communities and how they may be affected by the organization's activities. This topic
covers socioeconomic, cultural, health, and human rights impacts on local communities.
Coal organizations can have positive impacts on local communities through employment and local procurement,
taxes or other payments to local governments, community development programs, and investments in infrastructure
or public services (see also topic 12.8 Economic impacts, topic 12.15 Employment practices, and topic 12.21
Payments to governments).
Activities of the coal sector can also lead to negative impacts on local communities. Negative impacts can result from,
for example, land use requirements for the sector’s activities, an influx of people seeking employment and economic
opportunities, environmental degradation, exposure to hazardous substances, and use of natural resources. Coal
activities can also trigger conflict when negative impacts from coal activities are not addressed, or intensify pre-
existing conflicts (see also topic 12.12 Conflict and security). Vulnerable groups, including women and indigenous
peoples, may be disproportionally affected by these impacts.
The sector’s land use can compete with other land use demands, such as for agriculture, fishing, or recreation. In
addition, it can disrupt traditional livelihoods and increase the risk of impoverishment. It can eventually lead to
displacement, resulting in additional impacts such as restrictions on access to essential services and human rights
(see also topic 12.10 Land and resource rights). The sector’s activities can also result in damage to cultural heritage
sites, potentially leading to loss of tradition, culture, or cultural identity, especially among indigenous peoples (see
also topic 12.11 Rights of indigenous peoples).
The influx of workers from the surrounding areas or as a result of fly-in fly-out work arrangements during the
construction, maintenance, expansion, and closure and rehabilitation phases of coal activities might lead to greater
economic inequality within the local community. A large-scale influx of workers can place local services and
resources under pressure, induce inflation, and introduce new communicable diseases. Higher housing costs may
lead to an increase in homelessness, especially among vulnerable groups. There may also be an increase in
activities that compromise social order, such as substance abuse, gambling, and prostitution. The influx of
predominantly male workers can change the gender balance of local communities. This can have impacts on women
in particular, as it can lead to a rise in sexual violence and trafficking. Documented cases have also shown the
presence of domestic and gender-based violence on operational sites and in local communities.
Other negative impacts from coal activities on local communities can result from air, soil, and water pollution; dust;
increased levels of traffic, noise, and light; and waste streams. Activities may also cause catastrophic incidents such
as explosions, fires, mine collapses, spills, and tailings facility failures (see also topic 12.13 Asset integrity and
critical incident management).
Meaningful local community engagement with access to inclusive decision making, effective grievance mechanisms,
and other remediation processes can help organizations in the coal sector prevent and mitigate the impacts of their
activities and increase a community’s ownership. In their absence, the community’s concerns might not be
understood or addressed, which can create negative impacts or exacerbate existing problems, such as gender
inequality. Establishing or participating in grievance mechanisms and other remediation processes that are tailored
to the specific needs of local communities can also help organizations address actual or potential negative impacts.
31 GRI 12: Coal Sector 2022
Reporting on local communities
If the organization has determined local communities to be a material topic, this sub-section lists the disclosures
identified as relevant for reporting on the topic by the coal sector.
STANDARD DISCLOSURE SECTOR
STANDARD
REF. NO.
Management of the topic
GRI 3: Material Disclosure 3-3 Management of material topics 12.9.1
Topics 2021
Additional sector recommendations
• Describe the approach to identifying stakeholders within local communities
and to engaging with them.
• List the vulnerable groups that the organization has identified within local
communities.
• List any collective or individual rights that the organization has identified that
are of particular concern for local communities.10
• Describe the approach to engaging with vulnerable groups, including:
- how the organization seeks to ensure meaningful engagement; and
- how the organization seeks to ensure safe and equitable gender
participation.
Topic Standard disclosures
GRI 413: Local Disclosure 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact 12.9.2
Communities assessments, and development programs
2016
Disclosure 413-2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts 12.9.3
on local communities
Additional sector disclosures
Report the number and type of grievances from local communities identified, including: 12.9.4
• percentage of the grievances that were addressed and resolved;
• percentage of the grievances that were resolved through remediation.
References and resources
GRI 413: Local Communities 2016 lists authoritative intergovernmental instruments and additional references
relevant to reporting on this topic.
The additional authoritative instruments and references used in developing this topic, as well as resources that may
be helpful for reporting on local communities by the coal sector are listed in the Bibliography.
10 These additional sector recommendations are based on the guidance to clause 1.1 in GRI 413: Local Communities 2016.
32 GRI 12: Coal Sector 2022
Topic 12.10 Land and resource rights
Land and resource rights encompass the rights to use, manage and control land, fisheries, forests, and other
natural resources. An organization’s impacts on the availability and accessibility of these can affect local
communities and other users. This topic covers impacts from an organization’s use of land and natural
resources on human rights and tenure rights, including from resettlement of local communities.
Coal activities require access to land for prospecting, exploration, mining, coal and waste storage, processing,
transportation, and distribution. This can sometimes lead to displacement of other land users, restricted access to
resources and services, and involuntary resettlement of local communities. Impacts from land use vary according to
the extraction method, resource location, processing required, and transportation methods. For example,
displacement is more often associated with surface mining than when activities take place underground.
Unclear rules regarding tenure rights to access, use, and control land often lead to disputes, economic and social
tensions, and conflict. Insufficient consultation with and inadequate compensation to affected communities can also
exacerbate tensions and conflict. For example, the relationship between mineral rights and land rights might be
unclear; formal statutory tenure rules might overlap or conflict with traditional customary rules; legitimate rights may
not be recognized or enforced; or people may lack formal documentation of their rights to land.
Involuntary resettlement of local communities can involve physical displacement (e.g., relocation or shelter loss) and
economic displacement (e.g., loss of or access to assets), having impacts on people’s livelihoods and human rights.
In such cases, organizations in the coal sector may provide local communities with monetary compensation or land
that is equivalent to the lost assets. However, determining the value of local communities’ access to the natural
environment is complex. It includes consideration of income-generating activities, human health, and non-material
aspects of quality of life, such as the loss of cultural or recreational opportunities. The amount of compensation
provided may therefore not be equivalent to the loss borne. In some cases, customary titleholders to the land may not
be compensated at all or only for crops they were cultivating on the land rather than for the land itself.
Community members resisting resettlement may also face threats and intimidation, as well as violent, repressive, or
life-threatening removal from lands (see also topic 12.12 Conflict and security).
Addressing impacts on land and resource rights typically requires extensive and meaningful engagement between
organizations in the coal sector and local communities, including with vulnerable groups who often experience
impacts more severely. In cases of ineffective community consultation or in the absence of free, prior, and informed
consent, impacts on resettling communities or existing problems within a community can be exacerbated by an
inadequate resettlement process or lack of transparency (see also topics 12.9 Local communities and 12.11 Rights
of indigenous peoples). Community consultations may also fail to include all affected members. Women, for
example, are often excluded from decision-making processes related to the development of a new project.
33 GRI 12: Coal Sector 2022
Reporting on land and resource rights
If the organization has determined land and resource rights to be a material topic, this sub-section lists the
disclosures identified as relevant for reporting on the topic by the coal sector.
STANDARD DISCLOSURE SECTOR
STANDARD
REF. NO.
Management of the topic
GRI 3: Material Disclosure 3-3 Management of material topics 12.10.1
Topics 2021
Additional sector recommendations
• Describe the approach to engaging with affected vulnerable groups, including:
- how the organization seeks to ensure meaningful engagement;
- how the organization seeks to ensure safe and equitable gender
participation.
• Describe the policies or commitments to providing remediation to local
communities or individuals subject to involuntary resettlement, such as the
process for establishing compensation for loss of assets or other assistance
to improve or restore standards of living or livelihoods.
Additional sector disclosures
List the locations of operations that caused or contributed to involuntary resettlement or where such 12.10.2
resettlement is ongoing. For each location, describe how peoples’ livelihoods and human rights were
affected and restored.
References and resources
The authoritative instruments and references used in developing this topic, as well as resources that may be helpful
for reporting on land and resource rights by the coal sector are listed in the Bibliography.
34 GRI 12: Coal Sector 2022
Topic 12.11 Rights of indigenous peoples
Indigenous peoples are at higher risk of experiencing negative impacts more severely as a result of an
organization’s activities. Indigenous peoples have both collective and individual rights, as set out in the United
Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples and other authoritative international human rights
instruments. This topic covers impacts on the rights of indigenous peoples.
The presence of the coal sector in proximity to indigenous communities can present economic opportunities and
benefits for indigenous peoples through employment, training, and community development programs (see also
topic 12.8 Economic impacts). However, it can also disrupt indigenous peoples’ cultural, spiritual, and economic ties
to their lands or natural environments, compromise their rights and well-being, and cause displacement (see also
topic 12.10 Land and resource rights). It can have further impacts on the availability of and access to water, which is a
key concern for many indigenous communities.
The collective and individual rights of indigenous peoples are recognized in authoritative international instruments.
Indigenous peoples also often have a special legal status in national legislation, and can be customary or legal
owners of lands to which organizations in the coal sector are granted use rights by governments. Before initiating
development or other activities that could have impacts on lands or resources that indigenous peoples use or own,
organizations are expected to seek free, prior, and informed consent (FPIC) from indigenous peoples. This right is
recognized in the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples and allows indigenous peoples to
give or withhold consent to a project that may affect them or their territories and to negotiate project conditions [184].
However, some national governments may not recognize or enforce indigenous land rights or indigenous peoples’
right to consent.
Organizations in the sector and indigenous peoples regularly have disputes and conflicts over land ownership and
rights. Documented cases show an absence of good faith consultations and undue pressure on indigenous peoples
to accept projects, with opposition to such projects sometimes leading to violence or death (see also topic 12.12
Conflict and security).
An influx of workers from other areas can result in discrimination toward indigenous peoples regarding access to
jobs and opportunities. It can further undermine social cohesion, well-being, and safety. Indigenous women can be
more exposed to risks of prostitution, forced labor, violence, and communicable diseases than indigenous men (see
also topic 12.9 Local communities).
The contribution of the coal sector to climate change can also exacerbate negative impacts on indigenous peoples,
given their unique relationship with and, at times, their dependence on the natural environment (see also topic 12.1
GHG emissions).
35 GRI 12: Coal Sector 2022
Reporting on rights of indigenous peoples
If the organization has determined rights of indigenous peoples to be a material topic, this sub-section lists the
disclosures identified as relevant for reporting on the topic by the coal sector.
STANDARD DISCLOSURE SECTOR
STANDARD
REF. NO.
Management of the topic
GRI 3: Material Disclosure 3-3 Management of material topics 12.11.1
Topics 2021
Additional sector recommendations
• Describe the community development programs that are intended to enhance
positive impacts for indigenous peoples, including the approach to providing
employment, procurement, and training opportunities.
• Describe the approach to engaging with indigenous peoples, including:
- how the organization seeks to ensure meaningful engagement;
- how the organization seeks to ensure safe and equitable gender
participation.
Topic Standard disclosures
GRI 411: Rights Disclosure 411-1 Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples 12.11.2
of Indigenous
Additional sector recommendations
Peoples 2016
• Describe the identified incidents of violations involving the rights of indigenous
peoples.
Additional sector disclosures
List the locations of operations where indigenous peoples are present or affected by activities of the 12.11.3
organization.
Report if the organization has been involved in a process of seeking free, prior, and informed consent 12.11.4
(FPIC) from indigenous peoples for any of the organization’s activities, including, in each case:
• whether the process has been mutually accepted by the organization and the affected indigenous
peoples;
• whether an agreement has been reached, and if so, if the agreement is publicly available.
References and resources
GRI 411: Rights of Indigenous Peoples 2016 lists authoritative intergovernmental instruments and additional
references relevant to reporting on this topic.
The additional authoritative instruments and references used in developing this topic, as well as resources that may
be helpful for reporting on rights of indigenous peoples by the coal sector are listed in the Bibliography.
36 GRI 12: Coal Sector 2022
Topic 12.12 Conflict and security
An organization’s activities may trigger conflict or, in cases of existing conflict, intensify it. The use of security
personnel to manage conflict can play an essential role in allowing an organization to operate safely and
productively but also has the potential to impact on people’s human rights. This topic covers the organization's
security practices and its approach to operating in areas of conflict.
Many organizations in the coal sector operate in locations and situations of conflict, including, for example, countries
characterized by political and social instability. The risk of human rights abuses is heightened in areas of conflict.11
Conflict can also be caused by the presence of coal activities. It can be triggered by negative environmental impacts;
inadequate engagement with stakeholders and indigenous peoples in decision-making processes; uneven
distribution of economic benefits or provision of benefits deemed disproportionate to impacts created; and disputes
over the use of land and natural resources (see also topic 12.10 Land and resource rights). The perceived
mismanagement of funds at the expense of local interests can also trigger conflict (see also topic 12.20 Anti-
corruption). Such conflicts can heighten the need to use security personnel, thereby increasing the potential for
violations of human rights.
Security personnel engaged by organizations in the coal sector or public security directed by the host government may
be present to protect organizations’ assets or ensure workers’ safety and security. Actions taken by security personnel
against local community members, including during protest activities against the development of coal resources or to
protect their land and resources, can violate human rights, such as rights to freedom of association and freedom of
speech, as well as lead to violence, injuries, or deaths. Security contractors may also be connected to military or
paramilitary groups.
When coal activities are endorsed by the government but remain disagreeable to local communities, the presence of
public security forces can increase tensions between communities, government, and organizations in the sector. This
can, in turn, exacerbate local power imbalances and, potentially, the use of force.
In cases where public or other third-party security forces, such as paramilitary groups, are active, organizations in the
coal sector still have a responsibility to take steps to ensure security practices are consistent with the protection of
human rights. This involves assessing security-related risks, identifying situations in which impacts on human rights
are likely to occur, and working with security providers to ensure human rights are respected.
Organizations in the coal sector may also contribute more broadly to the safety and security of local communities, for
example, by facilitating communication between communities and public security forces or supporting efforts to
address other sources of conflict.
11 Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) defines areas of conflict by the presence of armed conflict or widespread
violence, or areas with high risk of conflict or widespread serious abuses and human rights violations [206].
37 GRI 12: Coal Sector 2022
Reporting on conflict and security
If the organization has determined conflict and security to be a material topic, this sub-section lists the disclosures
identified as relevant for reporting on the topic by the coal sector.
STANDARD DISCLOSURE SECTOR
STANDARD
REF. NO.
Management of the topic
GRI 3: Material Disclosure 3-3 Management of material topics 12.12.1
Topics 2021
Additional sector recommendations
• List the locations of operations in areas of conflict.
• Describe the approach to ensuring respect for human rights by public and
private security providers.
Topic Standard disclosures
GRI 410: Security Disclosure 410-1 Security personnel trained in human rights policies or 12.12.2
Practices 2016 procedures
References and resources
GRI 410: Security Practices 2016 lists additional references relevant to reporting on this topic.
The additional authoritative instruments and references used in developing this topic, as well as resources that may
be helpful for reporting on conflict and security by the coal sector are listed in the Bibliography.
38 GRI 12: Coal Sector 2022
Topic 12.13 Asset integrity and critical incident management
Asset integrity and critical incident management deal with the prevention and control of incidents that can lead to
fatalities, injuries or ill health, environmental impacts, and damage to local communities and infrastructure. This
topic covers impacts from such incidents and an organization’s approach to managing them.
Critical incidents in the coal sector can have catastrophic consequences for workers, local communities, the
environment, and cause damage to the organization’s assets. In addition to fatalities and injuries, these incidents can
cause air, soil, and water contamination. These impacts have the potential to disrupt other economic activities that
depend on these natural resources, such as agriculture and fishing, affecting livelihoods and compromising food
safety and security. Other impacts include ecosystem and habitat degradation and animal mortality.
Critical incidents related to the coal sector include mine collapses, poisonous gas leaks, dust explosions, stope
collapses, ground subsidence, fires, mining-induced seismicity, floods, vehicle collisions, and mechanical errors due
to improperly operated or malfunctioning equipment (see also topic 12.14 Occupational health and safety). Coal fires
can release fly ash and smoke containing toxic chemicals that enter food chains. Fires and other events involving
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, such as coal dust explosions, also contribute to climate change (see also topic
12.1 GHG emissions).
Other critical incidents involve failures related to tailings management. Tailings are a residual waste generated by
coal processing, usually in slurry form. Poor management or design of tailings facilities can lead to leaks or
collapses, with serious impacts on local communities, livelihoods, infrastructure, and the environment. Failures can
result from inadequate water management, overtopping, foundation or drainage failure, erosion, and earthquakes.
Impacts become more severe when tailings contain high levels of bioavailable metals or hazardous chemicals.
Incidents related to spills and leaks of coal slurry ponds and tailings pipelines can also cause significant damage.
Critical incident risks can be identified and anticipated by implementing a critical control management approach,
which addresses the sources or factors likeliest to lead to potential incidents. Organizations can mitigate their
negative impacts through measures that ensure emergency preparedness and response. This includes effective
communication with local communities to limit exposure to pollution and other hazards during emergencies (see also
topic 12.9 Local communities). Effective critical control management can also limit impacts associated with extreme
weather events, which will increase in frequency and intensity due to the effects of climate change.
39 GRI 12: Coal Sector 2022
Reporting on asset integrity and critical incident management
If the organization has determined asset integrity and critical incident management to be a material topic, this sub-
section lists the disclosures identified as relevant for reporting on the topic by the coal sector.
STANDARD DISCLOSURE SECTOR
STANDARD
REF. NO.
Management of the topic
GRI 3: Material Disclosure 3-3 Management of material topics 12.13.1
Topics 2021
Additional sector recommendations
• Report whether the organization complies with the Global Industry Standard on
Tailings Management (GISTM) and, if so, provide a link to the most recent
information disclosed in line with GISTM Principle 15.
Topic Standard disclosures
GRI 306: Disclosure 306-3 Significant spills 12 12.13.2
Effluents and
Waste 2016
Additional sector disclosures
Report the number of critical incidents in the reporting period and describe their impacts. 12.13.3
• List the organization’s tailings facilities, and report the name, location, and ownership status. 12.13.4
• For each tailings facility:
- describe the tailings facility;
- report whether the facility is active, inactive, or closed;
- report the Consequence Classification;
- report the date and main findings of the most recent risk assessment;
- report the dates of the most recent and next independent technical reviews.13
• Describe actions taken to:
- manage impacts from tailings facilities, including during closure and post-closure;
- prevent catastrophic failures of tailings facilities.14
References and resources
GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016 lists authoritative intergovernmental instruments and additional resources
relevant to reporting on this topic.
The additional references used in developing this topic, as well as resources that may be helpful for reporting on
asset integrity and critical incident management by the coal sector are listed in the Bibliography.
12 The effluents-related content of the GRI Standard GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016 has been superseded by GRI Standard GRI 303: Water and
Effluents 2018, and the waste-related content has been superseded by GRI 306: Waste 2020. The spills-related content in GRI 306: Effluents and Waste
2016 remains in effect.
13 For more guidance, see Principle 15, Requirement 15.1 in the Global Industry Standard on Tailings Management (GISTM) [222].
14 Definitions for terms used in the tailings disclosures can be found in the GISTM [222].
40 GRI 12: Coal Sector 2022
Topic 12.14 Occupational health and safety
Healthy and safe work conditions are recognized as a human right. Occupational health and safety involves the
prevention of physical and mental harm to workers and promotion of workers’ health. This topic covers impacts
related to workers’ health and safety.
Despite efforts to eliminate work-related hazards and improve workers’ health and well-being, work-related injuries or
ill health, including fatalities, are still prevalent in the coal sector. Activities with potential hazards include working with
heavy machinery and exposure to or handling of explosive, flammable, poisonous, or harmful substances. Hazards
can also be associated with working in confined spaces or isolated locations, long working hours, and the physical
and often repetitive labor involved. Hazards vary according to the extraction method, and workers in underground
mines often experience additional risks.
Hazards associated with the activities of the coal sector have the potential to result in high-consequence work-related
injuries. Transportation incidents, which can occur when workers and equipment are transported to and from mining
sites, are a common source of fatalities and injuries in the sector. Other major hazards include fires and explosions,
originating from coal dust and flammable gases during coal extraction, transportation, and processing, and electrical
hazards associated with high-voltage systems used in exploration and production facilities or equipment (see also
topic 12.13 Asset integrity and critical incident management). Falling structures, faulty handling of heavy machinery, or
malfunctioning electrical, hydraulic, or mechanical installations can result in incidents categorized as ‘struck-by’,
‘caught-in’, or ‘caught-between’. Workers may also be at risk of injuries from slips, trips, and falls when accessing
working areas and equipment high above the ground or via underground walkways.
Hazards associated with the coal sector that have the potential to result in ill health can be biological, chemical,
ergonomic, or physical in origin. Commonly reported chemical hazards include respirable dust, released during
processes that use or produce sand, for example, and can cause lung illnesses such as asthma, cancer, and
pneumoconiosis. The sector’s activities also involve working in confined spaces, which may contain a high
concentration of gases, such as carbon monoxide, methane, and nitrogen, that can lead to poisoning or asphyxiation.
In addition, exposure to hydrogen sulfide released by coal seams can lead to incapacitation or death. Physical and
ergonomic hazards in the sector include extreme temperatures, harmful levels of radiation, and harmful levels of
machinery noise or vibration, which can cause hearing impairment or loss and musculoskeletal disorders. Biological
hazards prevalent in the sector include communicable diseases present in the local community or diseases due to
poor hygiene and poor quality of food or water.
Hazards related to common employment practices (see also topic 12.15) in the coal sector can increase the risk of
fatigue, strain, or stress and have negative impacts on physical, psychological, and social health. These practices
include fly-in fly-out work arrangements, working and living in different locations, rotational work, long shifts, long travel
times, living in the workplace, interrupted rest, irregular working hours, and solitary work. Workers may also
experience psychological reactions, such as post-traumatic stress disorder following a major incident. In addition,
workplaces characterized by gender imbalance can contribute to increased stress, discrimination, or sexual
harassment (see also topic 12.19 Non-discrimination and equal opportunity).
The coal sector makes extensive use of suppliers, some of which may undertake activities considered among the
most dangerous. Occupational health and safety management systems may not cover suppliers’ workers in the
same way employees are covered. Suppliers’ workers operating on the premises of organizations in the sector may
be less familiar with the workplace and the organization’s health and safety practices or less committed to those
practices. Other workers in the organization’s supply chain may be subject to lower occupational health and safety
standards.
41 GRI 12: Coal Sector 2022
Reporting on occupational health and safety
If the organization has determined occupational health and safety to be a material topic, this sub-section lists the
disclosures identified as relevant for reporting on the topic by the coal sector.
STANDARD DISCLOSURE SECTOR
STANDARD
REF. NO.
Management of the topic
GRI 3: Material Disclosure 3-3 Management of material topics 12.14.1
Topics 2021
Topic Standard disclosures
GRI 403: Disclosure 403-1 Occupational health and safety management system 12.14.2
Occupational
Disclosure 403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident 12.14.3
Health and
investigation
Safety 2018
Disclosure 403-3 Occupational health services 12.14.4
Disclosure 403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and communication on 12.14.5
occupational health and safety
Disclosure 403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety 12.14.6
Disclosure 403-6 Promotion of worker health 12.14.7
Disclosure 403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and safety 12.14.8
impacts directly linked by business relationships
Disclosure 403-8 Workers covered by an occupational health and safety 12.14.9
management system
Disclosure 403-9 Work-related injuries 12.14.10
Disclosure 403-10 Work-related ill health 12.14.11
References and resources
GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2018 lists authoritative intergovernmental instruments and additional
references relevant to reporting on this topic.
The additional authoritative instruments and references used in developing this topic, as well as resources that may
be helpful for reporting on occupational health and safety by the coal sector are listed in the Bibliography.
42 GRI 12: Coal Sector 2022
Topic 12.15 Employment practices
Employment practices refer to an organization’s approach to job creation, terms of employment and working
conditions for its workers. This topic also covers the employment and working conditions in an organization’s
supply chain.
The coal sector generates employment opportunities across the value chain. This can have positive socioeconomic
impacts on communities, countries, and regions. The sector can offer well-paid opportunities for skilled workers,
however, the employment practices are also associated with negative impacts. Examples include working conditions
and disparities in working conditions for contract workers, ineffective labor-management consultations, and job
insecurity.
Many jobs in the coal sector have complex shift patterns, involving long shifts and night shifts, to ensure continuity of
operations around the clock. This can cause high levels of fatigue and augment risks related to health and safety (see
also topic 12.14 Occupational health and safety). Organizations in the coal sector can also use fly-in fly-out work
arrangements, in which workers are flown to operational sites for several weeks at a time and often required to work
extended shifts. Irregular work shifts and schedules and time spent away from families can have further impacts on
workers’ physical, psychological, and/or social health.
Various activities in the coal sector are outsourced to suppliers. This is common during peak periods, such as during
construction or maintenance works, or for specific activities, such as catering, drilling, security, and transportation.
Outsourcing activities and using workers employed by suppliers, could allow organizations in the coal sector to
reduce their labor costs or to bypass collective agreements that are in place for employees (see also topic 12.18
Freedom of association and collective bargaining).
Compared to employees, workers employed by suppliers commonly have less favorable employment conditions,
lower remuneration, less training, higher accident rates, and less job security. They often lack social protection and
access to grievance mechanisms. Workers beyond the first tiers of business relationships in organization’s supply
chain may also be subject to low standards for working conditions, exposing organizations in the coal sector to
human rights violations through their business relationships.
Employment terms can vary between local workers, migrant workers, and contractors. Remuneration for these groups
of workers may be unequal, and benefits, such as bonuses, housing allowances, and private insurance plans, may
only be offered to expatriate employees. Lack of relevant skills, knowledge, or accessible training programs can also
restrict local communities from accessing employment opportunities created by the coal sector (see also topic 12.8
Economic impacts).
Job security is also a concern in the coal sector. Mine closures or coal price drops can occur suddenly, leading to job
losses and increasing pressure on remaining workers. Low job security is further compounded by automation and
changing business models, such as changes triggered by the transition to a low-carbon economy (see also topic
12.2 Climate adaptation, resilience, and transition). Organizations in the sector can support workers by planning for a
just transition, including implementing timely measures that aim to develop their skills and improve their employability
in other sectors.
43 GRI 12: Coal Sector 2022
Reporting on employment practices
If the organization has determined employment practices to be a material topic, this sub-section lists the disclosures
identified as relevant for reporting on the topic by the coal sector.
STANDARD DISCLOSURE SECTOR
STANDARD
REF. NO.
Management of the topic
GRI 3: Material Disclosure 3-3 Management of material topics 12.15.1
Topics 2021
Topic Standard disclosures
GRI 401: Disclosure 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 12.15.2
Employment 2016
Disclosure 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided 12.15.3
to temporary or part-time employees
Disclosure 401-3 Parental leave 12.15.4
GRI 402: Disclosure 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes 12.15.5
Labor/Management
Relations 2016
GRI 404: Training Disclosure 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 12.15.6
and Education
Disclosure 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition 12.15.7
2016
assistance programs
GRI 414: Supplier Disclosure 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria 12.15.8
Social Assessment
Disclosure 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 12.15.9
2016
References and resources
GRI 401: Employment 2016, GRI 402: Labor/Management Relations 2016, GRI 404: Training and Education 2016,
and GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 2016 list authoritative intergovernmental instruments and additional
references relevant to reporting on this topic.
The additional authoritative instruments and references used in developing this topic, as well as resources that may
be helpful for reporting on employment practices by the coal sector are listed in the Bibliography.
44 GRI 12: Coal Sector 2022
Topic 12.16 Child labor
Child labor is defined as work that deprives children of their childhood, their potential, and their dignity, and that is
harmful to their development, including by interfering with their education. It is a violation of human rights and can
lead to lifelong negative impacts. Abolition of child labor is a fundamental principle and right at work.
Around one million children between ages five and 17 are estimated to be engaged in artisanal and small-scale
mining and quarrying activities, and the use of child labor in coal mining has been documented in several countries
[244] [249]. Risks of child labor in the coal sector are higher when the work is taking place on an informal basis or in
remote areas.
Coal mining activities are dangerous to children in various ways. Children face multiple hazards in coal mines, such
as falling rocks, explosions, fires, and collapse of mine walls, leading to serious accidents and injuries (see also
topic 12.14 Occupational health and safety). Other impacts can result from working in remote areas with limited
access to schools and social services. In the absence of family or community support, the conditions may also foster
alcohol abuse, drugs, and prostitution.
Coal organizations interact with a high number of suppliers, including in countries with low enforcement of human
rights. Coal organizations may be involved with incidences of child labor because of their business relationships with
suppliers, for example, during construction of operational sites. Child labor has a higher prevalence in areas affected
by armed conflict (see also topic 12.12 Conflict and security).
The coal sector’s impacts on local communities and organizations’ employment practices can affect children’s rights
and well-being, for example, parents’ working conditions, including irregular working hours, shift work, and fly-in fly-
out arrangements (see also topic 12.15 Employment practices).
45 GRI 12: Coal Sector 2022
Reporting on child labor
If the organization has determined child labor to be a material topic, this sub-section lists the disclosures identified as
relevant for reporting on the topic by the coal sector.
STANDARD DISCLOSURE SECTOR
STANDARD
REF. NO.
Management of the topic
GRI 3: Material Disclosure 3-3 Management of material topics 12.16.1
Topics 2021
Topic Standard disclosures
GRI 408: Child Disclosure 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child 12.16.2
labor 2016 labor
GRI 414: Supplier Disclosure 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria 12.16.3
Social
Assessment
2016
References and resources
GRI 408: Child labor 2016 and GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 2016 list authoritative intergovernmental
instruments and additional references relevant to reporting on this topic.
The additional authoritative instruments and references used in developing this topic, as well as resources that may
be helpful for reporting on child labor by the coal sector are listed in the Bibliography.
46 GRI 12: Coal Sector 2022
Topic 12.17 Forced labor and modern slavery
Forced labor is defined as all work or service which is exacted from any person under the menace of penalty and
for which a person has not offered themselves voluntarily. Freedom from forced labor is a human right and a
fundamental right at work. This topic covers an organization’s approach to identifying and addressing forced
labor and modern slavery.
Coal is a product at risk of being mined using forced labor or modern slavery in several countries [252] [259].
Additionally, coal organizations may be involved with human rights violations and other instances of exploitation via
interaction with suppliers, which may include those operating in countries with low rates of enforcement of human
rights. Coal organizations may also be involved with incidences of forced labor and modern slavery as a result of their
joint ventures and other business relationships, including those with state-owned enterprises in countries where
international human rights violations are documented. Conducting due diligence within the large and complex supply
chains common in the sector may also pose difficulties for detecting and addressing incidents of forced labor and
modern slavery.
There are documented cases of human rights violations throughout the supply chain concerning activities such as
coal shipping and construction. Migrant workers can face higher risks of modern slavery when dealing with third-party
employment agencies, such as those found to overcharge workers for visas and flights or demand recruitment costs
be paid by workers rather than employers.
As part of a global effort, several governments have issued legislation requiring public reporting on addressing
traditional and emerging forced labor practices, including modern slavery. Such legislation applies to many
organizations in the coal sector.
47 GRI 12: Coal Sector 2022
Reporting on forced labor and modern slavery
If the organization has determined forced labor and modern slavery to be a material topic, this sub-section lists the
disclosures identified as relevant for reporting on the topic by the coal sector.
STANDARD DISCLOSURE SECTOR
STANDARD
REF. NO.
Management of the topic
GRI 3: Material Disclosure 3-3 Management of material topics 12.17.1
Topics 2021
Topic Standard disclosures
GRI 409: Forced Disclosure 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of 12.17.2
or Compulsory forced or compulsory labor
Labor 2016
GRI 414: Supplier Disclosure 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria 12.17.3
Social
Assessment
2016
References and resources
GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labor 2016 and GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 2016 list authoritative
intergovernmental instruments and additional references relevant to reporting on this topic.
The additional authoritative instruments and references used in developing this topic, as well as resources that may
be helpful for reporting on forced labor and modern slavery by the coal sector are listed in the Bibliography.
48 GRI 12: Coal Sector 2022
Topic 12.18 Freedom of association and collective bargaining
Freedom of association and collective bargaining are human rights and fundamental rights at work. They include
the rights of employers and workers to form, join, and run their own organizations without prior authorization or
interference, and to collectively negotiate working conditions and terms of employment. This topic covers an
organization’s approach and impacts related to freedom of association and collective bargaining.
Workers’ rights to organize and to take collective action are critical for supporting and improving working conditions in
the coal sector, including conditions relating to occupational health and safety, wages, and job security. These rights
can also enable public debate about the sector’s governance and practices, enhance collaboration towards a just
transition, as well as aid in reducing social inequality.
Many jobs associated with the coal sector have traditionally been represented by trade unions and covered
bycollective bargaining agreements. However, some coal resources are located in countries where these rights are
restricted. Workers in such locations face risks when seeking to join trade unions and engage in collective
bargaining. Even in countries where unions are legal, restrictions that prevent effective worker representation might
exist, and workers who join unions may face intimidation or unfair treatment.
Documented cases of interference with freedom of association and collective bargaining in the sector include
detention of managers and other employees, invasion of privacy, not adhering to collective agreements, and
preventing trade union access to workplaces to assist workers. Other documented cases include refusal to bargain in
good faith with workers’ chosen trade unions; threats, harassment, forced disappearance, violence, and deaths;
unfair dismissal of trade union members and leaders; and unilateral cancellation of collective bargaining
agreements.
Widely used in the coal sector, contract workers are often excluded from the scope of collective bargaining
agreements. As a result, contract workers commonly have less favorable employment conditions and lower
remuneration and benefits compared to employees (see also topic 12.15 Employment practices).
Box 2. Freedom of association and civic space
Freedom of association and peaceful assembly are human rights. These rights give workers, through their trade
unions, and citizens, through independent civil society, the freedom to speak about the coal sector’s policies and
organizations’ practices without interference.
Restrictions imposed on civic space, the environment that enables civil society to contribute to decisions that affect
individual lives, can limit citizens’ ability to engage in public debate about the sector’s policies and organizations’
practices.
49 GRI 12: Coal Sector 2022
Reporting on freedom of association and collective bargaining
If the organization has determined freedom of association and collective bargaining to be a material topic, this sub-
section lists the disclosures identified as relevant for reporting on the topic by the coal sector.
STANDARD DISCLOSURE SECTOR
STANDARD
REF. NO.
Management of the topic
GRI 3: Material Disclosure 3-3 Management of material topics 12.18.1
Topics 2021
Topic Standard disclosures
GRI 407: Disclosure 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of 12.18.2
Freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at risk
Association and
Collective
Bargaining 2016
References and resources
GRI 407: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 2016 lists authoritative intergovernmental instruments
relevant to reporting on this topic.
The additional authoritative instruments and references used in developing this topic, as well as resources that may
be helpful for reporting on freedom of association and collective bargaining by the coal sector are listed in the
Bibliography.
50 GRI 12: Coal Sector 2022
Topic 12.19 Non-discrimination and equal opportunity
Freedom from discrimination is a human right and a fundamental right at work. Discrimination can impose
unequal burdens on individuals or deny fair opportunities on the basis of individual merit. This topic covers
impacts from discrimination and practices related to diversity, inclusion, and equal opportunity.
The conditions, locations, necessary skills, and types of work associated with the coal sector can be a barrier for
entry, hinder employee diversity, and result in discrimination. Discriminatory practices can impede access to jobs and
career development, as well as lead to inequalities in treatment, remuneration, and benefits.
Documented cases of discrimination in the coal sector concern race, color, sex, gender, religion, national extraction,
and worker status. For example, jobseekers from local communities may be excluded from the hiring process
because of a recruitment system bias that favors a dominant ethnic group or utilizes migrant workers. Local workers
may receive significantly lower pay for equal work than expatriate employees. The sector’s widespread use of contract
workers, often with differing terms of employment and lower remuneration and benefits compared to employees, can
also be conducive to discrimination (see also topic 12.15 Employment practices).
The coal sector is characterized by a significant gender imbalance. In many countries, the percentage of women
working in this sector is significantly lower than the percentage of women working overall nationwide. Women are
also significantly underrepresented in senior management positions. One cause of this imbalance may be that fewer
women graduate with degrees pertinent to the sector, such as in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics.
Other barriers for women and primary caregivers include fly-in fly-out work arrangements, long hours, and limited
parental leave arrangements and childcare facilities at mining sites. Social or cultural customs, beliefs, and biases
can also limit women’s access to jobs in this sector or prevent them from taking on specific roles. In addition, some
resource-rich countries have laws that prevent women from working in hazardous or arduous occupations.
The coal sector has also been linked to domestic and gender-based violence, both at operational sites and within
local communities adjacent to the organization’s operations. Male-dominated cultures, imbalanced gender
distribution, and gendered organizational norms have been identified as contributing to the likelihood of sexual
harassment (see also topic 12.14 Occupational health and safety).
Understanding how specific groups may be subject to discrimination across different locations where coal
organizations operate can help organizations in effectively address discriminatory practices. Other measures, such
as providing specific training to workers on preventing discrimination can help address impacts related to
discrimination and create a respectful workplace.
51 GRI 12: Coal Sector 2022
Reporting on non-discrimination and equal opportunity
If the organization has determined non-discrimination and equal opportunity to be a material topic, this sub-section
lists the disclosures identified as relevant for reporting on the topic by the coal sector.
STANDARD DISCLOSURE SECTOR
STANDARD
REF. NO.
Management of the topic
GRI 3: Material Disclosure 3-3 Management of material topics 12.19.1
Topics 2021
Topic Standard disclosures
GRI 202: Market Disclosure 202-1 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local 12.19.2
Presence 2016 minimum wage
Disclosure 202-2 Proportion of senior management hired from the local 12.19.3
community
GRI 401: Disclosure 401-3 Parental leave 12.19.4
Employment
2016
GRI 404: Training Disclosure 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 12.19.5
and Education
2016
GRI 405: Diversity Disclosure 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 12.19.6
and Equal
Disclosure 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men 12.19.7
Opportunity 2016
GRI 406: Non- Disclosure 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 12.19.8
discrimination
2016
References and resources
GRI 202: Market Presence 2016, GRI 401: Employment 2016, GRI 404: Training and Education 2016, GRI 405:
Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016, and GRI 406: Non-discrimination 2016 list authoritative intergovernmental
instruments relevant to reporting on this topic.
The additional references used in developing this topic, as well as resources that may be helpful for reporting on non-
discrimination and equal opportunity by the coal sector are listed in the Bibliography.
52 GRI 12: Coal Sector 2022
Topic 12.20 Anti-corruption
Anti-corruption refers to how an organization manages the potential of being involved with corruption. Corruption
is practices such as bribery, facilitation payments, fraud, extortion, collusion, money laundering, or the offer or
receipt of an inducement to do something dishonest or illegal. This topic covers impacts related to corruption and
an organization’s approach related to contract and ownership transparency.
Corruption in the coal sector can occur throughout the value chain and has been linked to various negative impacts,
such as misallocation of resource revenues, damage to the environment, abuse of democracy and human rights, and
political instability. In addition, corruption can divert resource revenues to private beneficiaries, at the expense of, for
example, investments in infrastructure or services. This can be particularly critical in countries with high poverty levels,
where it can increase inequalities and conflicts over coal resources. Likelihood of corruption can be higher in areas of
conflict, where increased pressure on the supply of resources and instability might be exploited. Corruption can in
turn foster conflict and lead to instability (see also topic 12.12 Conflict and security).
Characteristics of the coal sector that contribute to the potential for corruption include frequent interaction between
coal organizations and politically exposed persons,15 such as government officials for licenses and other regulatory
approvals. Other relevant sector characteristics include the complex financial transactions and the international reach
of the sector.
State-owned enterprises (SOEs) face specific challenges in relation to corruption because they may have less
effective internal controls and be subject to partial independent oversight. In addition to driving profit, SOEs may also
pursue broader objectives such as community development. However, without adequate oversight, measures for
community development may be abused for corrupt purposes. Organizations in the coal sector partnering with SOEs
in joint ventures may face additional risks related to corruption as a result of this business relationship.
Corruption can occur during bidding processes for exploration and production licenses, for example, with the aim to
obtain confidential information, influence decision-making, or avoid environmental or local content requirements. This
may result in licenses being awarded to less qualified organizations, jeopardizing public investments, or negatively
impacting the environment and local communities. Opaque licensing procedures may also obstruct public scrutiny of
investments and transactions that could result in reduced public revenue.
Corrupt practices can also be aimed at blocking or shaping policies and regulations or to influence their enforcement.
This might include land and resource rights regulations, taxes and other government levies, or environmental
protection.
A lack of transparency in procurement procedures in the coal sector can also create a risk of corruption and fraud.
Examples of this can include paying bribes to get regulations or quality requirements waived, receiving kickbacks for
securing contracts at inflated prices, profiting from inflated prices charged by an entity established as a front
organization, and favoring companies connected to local regulators.
To combat corruption and prevent the negative impacts that stem from it, organizations in the coal sector are expected
by the marketplace, international norms, and stakeholders to demonstrate their adherence to integrity, governance,
and responsible business practices.
15 Politically exposed person is defined by the Financial Action Taskforce (FATF) as 'an individual who is or has been entrusted with a prominent public
function' [269].
53 GRI 12: Coal Sector 2022
Box 3. Transparency about contracts and ownership structures
Publication of government contracts is a growing practice. It is endorsed by organizations such as the United
Nations (UN), International Monetary Fund (IMF), International Finance Corporation (IFC), the International Bar
Association (IBA), and the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD).
Contracts governing the extraction of coal resources are commonly devised by organizations in the sector and
governments on behalf of citizens or local communities without public oversight. Fair terms for sharing risks and
rewarding benefits, including those related to a just transition, are particularly relevant because of the long-term
time horizons and widespread impacts of projects. Contract transparency helps local communities hold
governments and organizations accountable for their negotiated terms and obligations. It also reduces information
asymmetries between governments and coal organizations and helps level the playing field in negotiations.
Lack of transparency about ownership structures can make it difficult to determine who benefits from financial
transactions. Beneficial ownership transparency has been identified as a significant opportunity to deter conflicts of
interest, corruption, tax avoidance, and evasion.
See references [268] and [276] in the Bibliography.
54 GRI 12: Coal Sector 2022
Reporting on anti-corruption
If the organization has determined anti-corruption to be a material topic, this sub-section lists the disclosures
identified as relevant for reporting on the topic by the coal sector.
STANDARD DISCLOSURE SECTOR
STANDARD
REF. NO.
Management of the topic
GRI 3: Material Disclosure 3-3 Management of material topics 12.20.1
Topics 2021
Additional sector recommendations
• Describe how potential impacts of corruption or risks of corruption are
managed in the organization’s procurement practices and throughout the
supply chain.
Topic Standard disclosures
GRI 205: Anti- Disclosure 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 12.20.2
corruption 2016
Disclosure 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and 12.20.3
procedures
Disclosure 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 12.20.4
Additional sector disclosures
• Describe the approach to contract transparency, including: 12.20.5
- whether contracts and licenses are made publicly available and, if so, where they are
published;
- if contracts or licenses are not publicly available, the reason for this and actions taken to make
them public in the future.16
List the organization’s beneficial owners and explain how the organization identifies the beneficial 12.20.6
owners of business partners, including joint ventures and suppliers.17
References and resources
GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016 lists authoritative intergovernmental instruments and additional references relevant to
reporting on this topic.
The additional authoritative instruments and references used in developing this topic, as well as resources that may
be helpful for reporting on anti-corruption by the coal sector are listed in the Bibliography.
16 This additional sector disclosure is based on Requirement 2.4. Contracts in the EITI Standard 2019. Definitions for contracts and licenses can be
found in the EITI Standard 2019 [278].
17 This additional sector disclosure is based on Requirement 2.5. Beneficial ownership c., d., and f. in the EITI Standard 2019 [278].
55 GRI 12: Coal Sector 2022
Topic 12.21 Payments to governments
Lack of transparency about payments to governments can contribute to inefficient management of public funds,
illicit financial flows, and corruption. This topic covers impacts from an organization's practices related to
payments to governments and the organization’s approach to transparency of such payments.
Organizations in the coal sector deal with a large number of complex financial transactions and make a variety of
payments to governments. These include commodity trading revenues, exploration and production licensing fees,
taxes and royalties, signature, discovery, and production bonuses.
Transparency of payments to governments can help distinguish the economic importance of the coal sector to
countries, enable public debate, and inform government decision-making. It can also provide insights into the terms
of contracts, increase government accountability, and strengthen revenue collection and management. Insufficient
transparency of these payments, on the other hand, can impede detection of misallocation of revenues and corruption
(see also topic 12.20 Anti-corruption).
Taxes, royalties, and other payments from organizations in the coal sector are an important source of investment and
revenue for local communities, countries, and regions (see also topic 12.8 Economic impacts). However, aggressive
tax practices or tax non-compliance can lead to diminished tax revenues in countries where coal organizations
operate. This can be particularly damaging for developing countries that may lack or have high needs for public
revenue.
The sector receives substantial subsidies from governments in many countries, despite commitments to phase out
financial support by 2018.18 Excessive subsidies for the sector can result in commodity prices that do not reflect coal’s
total environmental or social costs, and impede the transition to a low-carbon economy (see also topic 12.2 Climate
adaptation, resilience, and transition).
When disclosing information on payments to governments, organizations in the coal sector often report aggregate
payments at an organizational level. However, this can provide limited insight into payments made in each country or
related to a project. Reporting country-level and project-level payments enables a comparison of the payments made
to those stipulated in fiscal, legal, and contractual terms as well as to assess the financial contribution of coal
activities to host countries and communities. It can also enable governments to address tax avoidance and evasion,
correct information asymmetry, and level the playing field for governments when negotiating contracts.
Box 4. State-owned enterprises
A state-owned enterprise (SOE) is, according to the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI), ‘a wholly or
majority government-owned company that is engaged in extractive activities on behalf of the government’ [283].
SOEs often have special status, which can involve financial advantages and preferential treatment.
In some major coal producing countries the largest coal organizations are state-owned enterprises. As direct
customers, SOEs are also highly relevant for the sector. Of all power plants burning coal, 40% belong to SOEs, with
the figure rising to 56% when including joint ventures.
18 In the European Union, subsidies to coal producers added up to €9.7 billion in 2012 [281] and remained at similar levels in the following years [287].
56 GRI 12: Coal Sector 2022
Reporting on payments to governments
If the organization has determined payments to governments to be a material topic, this sub-section lists the
disclosures identified as relevant for reporting on the topic by the coal sector.
STANDARD DISCLOSURE SECTOR
STANDARD
REF. NO.
Management of the topic
GRI 3: Material Disclosure 3-3 Management of material topics 12.21.1
Topics 2021
Topic Standard disclosures
GRI 201: Disclosure 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 12.21.2
Economic
Disclosure 201-4 Financial assistance received from government 12.21.3
Performance
2016
Additional sector recommendations
For state-owned organizations (SOEs):
• Report the financial relationship between the government and the SOE.19
GRI 207: Tax Disclosure 207-1 Approach to tax 12.21.4
2019
Disclosure 207-2 Tax governance, control, and risk management 12.21.5
Disclosure 207-3 Stakeholder engagement and management of concerns related 12.21.6
to tax
Disclosure 207-4 Country-by-country reporting 12.21.7
Additional sector recommendations
• Report a breakdown of the payments to governments levied at the project-level,
by project and the following revenue streams, if applicable:
• - The host government’s production entitlement;
- National state-owned company production;
- Royalties;
- Dividends;
- Bonuses (e.g., signature, discovery, and production bonuses);
- License fees, rental fees, entry fees; and other considerations for licenses
or concessions;
- Any other significant payments and material benefits to government.20
• Report the value of any thresholds21 that have been applied and any other
contextual information necessary to understand how the project-level
payments to governments reported have been compiled.
Additional sector disclosures
For coal purchased from the state or from third parties appointed by the state to sell on their behalf, 12.21.8
report:
• volumes and types of coal purchased;
• full names of the buying entity and the recipient of the payment;
• payments made for the purchase.22
19 This additional sector recommendation is based on Requirement 2.6 State participation in the EITI Standard 2019 [289].
20 This additional sector recommendation is based on Requirement 4.1 Comprehensive disclosure of taxes and revenues and Requirement 4.7. Level of
disaggregation in the EITI Standard 2019. A definition for project can be found in the EITI Standard 2019 [289].
21 The EITI Standard 2019 specifies that in countries implementing the EITI, the multi-stakeholder group for the country agree which payments and
revenues are material, including appropriate thresholds [289]. The organization can use the relevant threshold set by the EITI multi-stakeholder group.
If there is no relevant threshold set, the organization can use a threshold equivalent to that established for the European Union, which specifies that
‘Payments, whether a single payment or a series of related payments, below EUR 100,000 within the reporting period can be excluded’ [279].
22 This additional sector disclosure is based on Requirement 4.2 Sale of the state’s share of production or other revenues collected in kind in the EITI
Standard 2019 [289] and EITI Reporting Guidelines for companies buying oil, gas and minerals from governments [288].
57 GRI 12: Coal Sector 2022
References and resources
GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016 and GRI 207: Tax 2019 list authoritative intergovernmental instruments and
additional references relevant to reporting on this topic.
The additional authoritative instruments and references used in developing this topic, as well as resources that may
be helpful for reporting on payments to governments by the coal sector are listed in the Bibliography.
58 GRI 12: Coal Sector 2022
Topic 12.22 Public policy
An organization can participate in public policy development, directly or through an intermediary organization, by
means of lobbying or making financial or in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, or causes. While an
organization can encourage the development of public policy that benefits society, participation can also be
associated with corruption, bribery, undue influence, or an imbalanced representation of the organization’s
interests. This topic covers an organization’s approach to public policy advocacy and the impacts that can result
from the influence an organization exerts.
In regions where coal generates significant revenue for governments, organizations in the sector may get better
access to, and representation in meetings with, government representatives, which may lead to increased influence
over public policy decisions.
Lobbying by the coal sector can obstruct sustainable development, for example, by misaligning policy, regulation, and
subsidies with the transition to a low-carbon economy. The coal sector has advocated against ambitious climate
policies through individual organizations in the sector and industry bodies. These activities have often been targeted
against enforcing meaningful carbon pricing, carbon budgets, or other measures to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG)
emissions that could leave coal assets and resources stranded. These efforts have sometimes contradicted publicly
stated corporate strategies and positions that support policies addressing climate change (see also topic 12.2
Climate adaptation, resilience, and transition). The coal sector has also lobbied for government subsidies,
contributing to increased dependence on fossil fuels and discouraging investment in renewable energy and energy
efficiency.
While lobbying activities may aim to safeguard existing jobs and the livelihoods of communities living adjacent to coal
mining areas, advocacy and lobbying activities by the coal sector have also contributed to hindering environmental
policies; blocking or amending legislation on environmental and social assessments of projects, or fair participation
of all stakeholders; overturning restrictions on resource development; and lowering labor standards, corporate taxes,
and resource royalties.
59 GRI 12: Coal Sector 2022
Reporting on public policy
If the organization has determined public policy to be a material topic, this sub-section lists the disclosures identified
as relevant for reporting on the topic by the coal sector.
STANDARD DISCLOSURE SECTOR
STANDARD
REF. NO.
Management of the topic
GRI 3: Material Disclosure 3-3 Management of material topics 12.22.1
Topics 2021
Additional sector recommendations
• Describe the organization’s stance on significant issues that are the focus of
its participation in public policy development and lobbying; and any differences
between these positions and its stated policies, goals, or other public
positions.
• Report whether the organization is a member of, or contributes to, any
representative associations or committees that participate in public policy
development and lobbying, including:
- the nature of this contribution;
- any differences between the organization’s stated policies, goals, or other
public positions on significant issues related to climate change, and the
positions of the representative associations or committees.23
Topic Standard disclosures
GRI 415: Public Disclosure 415-1 Political contributions 12.22.2
Policy 2016
References and resources
GRI 415: Public Policy 2016 lists authoritative intergovernmental instruments relevant to reporting on this topic.
The additional references used in developing this topic, as well as resources that may be helpful for reporting on
public policy by the coal sector are listed in the Bibliography.
23 These additional sector recommendations are based on reporting recommendations 1.2.1 and 1.2.2 in GRI 415: Public Policy 2016.
60 GRI 12: Coal Sector 2022
Glossary
This glossary provides definitions for terms used in this Standard. The organization is required to apply these
definitions when using the GRI Standards.
The definitions included in this glossary may contain terms that are further defined in the complete GRI Standards
Glossary. All defined terms are underlined. If a term is not defined in this glossary or in the complete GRI Standards
Glossary, definitions that are commonly used and understood apply.
area of high biodiversity value
A
area not subject to legal protection, but recognized for important biodiversity features by a
number of governmental and non-governmental organizations
Note 1: Areas of high biodiversity value include habitats that are a priority for conservation,
which are often defined in National Biodiversity Strategies and Action Plans
prepared under the United Nations (UN) Convention, ‘Convention on Biological
Diversity’, 1992.
Note 2: Several international conservation organizations have identified particular areas of
high biodiversity value.
area protected
area that is protected from any harm during operational activities, and where the environment
remains in its original state with a healthy and functioning ecosystem
area restored
area that was used during or affected by operational activities, and where remediation
measures have either restored the environment to its original state, or to a state where it has a
healthy and functioning ecosystem
baseline
B
starting point used for comparisons
Note: In the context of energy reporting, the baseline is the projected energy consumption
in the absence of any reduction activity.
basic salary
fixed, minimum amount paid to an employee for performing his or her duties
Note: Basic salary excludes any additional remuneration, such as payments for overtime
working or bonuses.
benefit
direct benefit provided in the form of financial contributions, care paid for by the organization, or
the reimbursement of expenses borne by the employee
Note: Redundancy payments over and above legal minimums, lay-off pay, extra
employment injury benefit, survivors’ benefits, and extra paid holiday entitlements
can also be included as a benefit.
business partner
entity with which the organization has some form of direct and formal engagement for the
purpose of meeting its business objectives
Source: Shift and Mazars LLP, UN Guiding Principles Reporting Framework, 2015; modified
Examples: affiliates, business-to-business customers, clients, first-tier suppliers, franchisees,
joint venture partners, investee companies in which the organization has a
shareholding position
Note: Business partners do not include subsidiaries and affiliates that the organization
controls.
business relationships
61 GRI 12: Coal Sector 2022
relationships that the organization has with business partners, with entities in its value chain
including those beyond the first tier, and with any other entities directly linked to its operations,
products, or services
Source: United Nations (UN), Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights:
Implementing the United Nations “Protect, Respect and Remedy” Framework, 2011;
modified
Note: Examples of other entities directly linked to the organization’s operations, products,
or services are a non-governmental organization with which the organization
delivers support to a local community or state security forces that protect the
organization’s facilities.
carbon dioxide (CO2) equivalent *
C
measure used to compare the emissions from various types of greenhouse gas (GHG)
based on their global warming potential (GWP)
Note: The CO equivalent for a gas is determined by multiplying the metric tons of the gas
2
by the associated GWP.
* Please note this term will be updated following the effective date of GRI 102: Climate Change
2025 and GRI 103: Energy 2025, as of 1 January 2027. Please see GRI 102/103 for the updated
term.
catchment
area of land from which all surface runoff and subsurface water flows through a sequence of
streams, rivers, aquifers, and lakes into the sea or another outlet at a single river mouth,
estuary, or delta
Source: Alliance for Water Stewardship (AWS), AWS International Water Stewardship
Standard, Version 1.0, 2014; modified
Note: Catchments include associated groundwater areas and might include portions of
waterbodies (such as lakes or rivers). In different parts of the world, catchments
are also referred to as ‘watersheds’ or ‘basins’ (or sub-basins).
child
person under the age of 15 years, or under the age of completion of compulsory schooling,
whichever is higher
Note 1: Exceptions can occur in certain countries where economies and educational
facilities are insufficiently developed, and a minimum age of 14 years applies.
These countries of exception are specified by the International Labour Organization
(ILO) in response to a special application by the country concerned and in
consultation with representative organizations of employers and workers.
Note 2: The ILO Minimum Age Convention, 1973, (No. 138), refers to both child labor and
young workers.
close call
work-related incident where no injury or ill health occurs, but which has the potential to cause
these
Source: International Organization for Standardization. ISO 45001:2018. Occupational health
and safety management systems — Requirements with guidance for use. Geneva:
ISO, 2018; modified
Note: A ‘close call’ might also be referred to as a ‘near-miss’ or ‘near-hit’.
collective bargaining
all negotiations that take place between one or more employers or employers' organizations, on
the one hand, and one or more workers' organizations (e.g., trade unions), on the other, for
determining working conditions and terms of employment or for regulating relations between
employers and workers
62 GRI 12: Coal Sector 2022
Source: International Labour Organization (ILO), Collective Bargaining Convention, 1981
(No. 154); modified
community development program
plan that details actions to minimize, mitigate, or compensate for adverse social and/or
economic impacts, and/or to identify opportunities or actions to enhance positive impacts of a
project on the community
conflict of interest
situation where an individual is confronted with choosing between the requirements of their
function in the organization and their other personal or professional interests or responsibilities
corruption
‘abuse of entrusted power for private gain’, which can be instigated by individuals or
organizations
Source: Transparency International, Business Principles for Countering Bribery, 2011
Note: Corruption includes practices such as bribery, facilitation payments, fraud, extortion,
collusion, and money laundering. It also includes an offer or receipt of any gift, loan,
fee, reward, or other advantage to or from any person as an inducement to do
something that is dishonest, illegal, or a breach of trust in the conduct of the
enterprise’s business. This can include cash or in-kind benefits, such as free
goods, gifts, and holidays, or special personal services provided for the purpose of
an improper advantage, or that can result in moral pressure to receive such an
advantage.
direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions *
D
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from sources that are owned or controlled by the
organization
Examples: CO emissions from fuel consumption
2
Note: A GHG source is any physical unit or process that releases GHG into the
atmosphere.
* Please note this term will be updated following the effective date of GRI 102: Climate Change
2025 and GRI 103: Energy 2025, as of 1 January 2027. Please see GRI 102/103 for the updated
term.
discrimination
act and result of treating persons unequally by imposing unequal burdens or denying benefits
instead of treating each person fairly on the basis of individual merit
Note: Discrimination can also include harassment, defined as a course of comments or
actions that are unwelcome, or should reasonably be known to be unwelcome, to
the person towards whom they are addressed.
disposal
any operation which is not recovery, even where the operation has as a secondary consequence
the recovery of energy
Source: European Union (EU), Waste Framework Directive, 2008 (Directive 2008/98/EC)
Note: Disposal is the end-of-life management of discarded products, materials, and
resources in a sink or through a chemical or thermal transformation that makes
these products, materials, and resources unavailable for further use.
due diligence
process to identify, prevent, mitigate, and account for how the organization addresses its actual
and potential negative impacts
63 GRI 12: Coal Sector 2022
Source: Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), OECD
Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, 2011; modified
United Nations (UN), Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights:
Implementing the United Nations “Protect, Respect and Remedy” Framework, 2011;
modified
Note: See section 2.3 in GRI 1: Foundation 2021 for more information on ‘due diligence’.
effluent
E
treated or untreated wastewater that is discharged
Source: Alliance for Water Stewardship (AWS), AWS International Water Stewardship
Standard, Version 1.0, 2014
employee
individual who is in an employment relationship with the organization according to national law
or practice
energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions *
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions that result from the generation of purchased or acquired
electricity, heating, cooling, and steam consumed by the organization
* Please note this term will be updated following the effective date of GRI 102: Climate Change
2025 and GRI 103: Energy 2025, as of 1 January 2027. Please see GRI 102/103 for the updated
term.
exposure
quantity of time spent at or the nature of contact with certain environments that possess various
degrees and kinds of hazard, or proximity to a condition that might cause injury or ill health (e.g.,
chemicals, radiation, high pressure, noise, fire, explosives)
forced or compulsory labor
F
all work and service that is exacted from any person under the menace of any penalty and for
which the said person has not offered herself or himself voluntarily
Source: International Labour Organization (ILO), Forced Labour Convention, 1930 (No. 29);
modified
Note 1: The most extreme examples of forced or compulsory labor are slave labor and
bonded labor, but debts can also be used as a means of maintaining workers in a
state of forced labor.
Note 2: Indicators of forced labor include withholding identity papers, requiring compulsory
deposits, and compelling workers, under threat of firing, to work extra hours to
which they have not previously agreed.
freedom of association
right of employers and workers to form, to join and to run their own organizations without prior
authorization or interference by the state or any other entity
freshwater
water with concentration of total dissolved solids equal to or below 1,000 mg/L
Source: Environmental management — Water footprint — Principles, requirements and
guidelines. Geneva: ISO, 2014; modified
United States Geological Survey (USGS), Water Science Glossary of Terms,
water.usgs.gov/edu/dictionary.html, accessed on 1 June 2018; modified
World Health Organization (WHO), Guidelines for Drinking-water Quality, 2017;
modified
global warming potential (GWP) *
G
value describing the radiative forcing impact of one unit of a given greenhouse gas
(GHG) relative to one unit of CO over a given period of time
2
64 GRI 12: Coal Sector 2022
Note: GWP values convert GHG emissions data for non-CO gases into units of CO2
2
equivalent.
* Please note this term will be updated following the effective date of GRI 102: Climate Change
2025 and GRI 103: Energy 2025, as of 1 January 2027. Please see GRI 102/103 for the updated
term.
governance body
formalized group of individuals responsible for the strategic guidance of the organization, the
effective monitoring of management, and the accountability of management to the broader
organization and its stakeholders
greenhouse gas (GHG) *
gas that contributes to the greenhouse effect by absorbing infrared radiation
* Please note this term will be updated following the effective date of GRI 102: Climate Change
2025 and GRI 103: Energy 2025, as of 1 January 2027. Please see GRI 102/103 for the updated
term.
grievance
perceived injustice evoking an individual’s or a group’s sense of entitlement, which may be
based on law, contract, explicit or implicit promises, customary practice, or general notions of
fairness of aggrieved communities
Source: United Nations (UN), Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights:
Implementing the United Nations “Protect, Respect and Remedy” Framework, 2011
grievance mechanism
routinized process through which grievances can be raised and remedy can be sought
Source: United Nations (UN), Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights:
Implementing the United Nations “Protect, Respect and Remedy” Framework, 2011;
modified
Note: See Guidance to Disclosure 2-25 in GRI 2: General Disclosures 2021 for more
information on ‘grievance mechanism’.
groundwater
water that is being held in, and that can be recovered from, an underground formation
Source: International Organization for Standardization. ISO 14046:2014. Environmental
management — Water footprint — Principles, requirements and guidelines. Geneva:
ISO, 2014; modified
hazardous waste
H
waste that possesses any of the characteristics contained in Annex III of the Basel Convention,
or that is considered to be hazardous by national legislation
Source: United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), Basel Convention on the Control
of Transboundary Movements of Hazardous Wastes and Their Disposal, 1989
high-consequence work-related injury
work-related injury that results in a fatality or in an injury from which the worker cannot, does not,
or is not expected to recover fully to pre-injury health status within six months
highest governance body
governance body with the highest authority in the organization
Note: In some jurisdictions, governance systems consist of two tiers, where supervision
and management are separated or where local law provides for a supervisory
board drawn from non-executives to oversee an executive management board. In
such cases, both tiers are included under the definition of highest governance
body.
human rights
65 GRI 12: Coal Sector 2022
rights inherent to all human beings, which include, at a minimum, the rights set out in the United
Nations (UN) International Bill of Human Rights and the principles concerning fundamental
rights set out in the International Labour Organization (ILO) Declaration on Fundamental
Principles and Rights at Work
Source: United Nations (UN), Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights:
Implementing the United Nations “Protect, Respect and Remedy” Framework, 2011;
modified
Note: See Guidance to 2-23-b-i in GRI 2: General Disclosures 2021 for more information
on ‘human rights’.
impact
I
effect the organization has or could have on the economy, environment, and people, including on
their human rights, which in turn can indicate its contribution (negative or positive) to sustainable
development
Note 1: Impacts can be actual or potential, negative or positive, short-term or long-term,
intended or unintended, and reversible or irreversible.
Note 2: See section 2.1 in GRI 1: Foundation 2021 for more information on ‘impact’.
Indigenous Peoples
Indigenous Peoples are generally identified as:
• tribal peoples in independent countries whose social, cultural and economic conditions
distinguish them from other sections of the national community, and whose status is
regulated wholly or partially by their own customs or traditions or by special laws or
regulations;
• peoples in independent countries who are regarded as indigenous on account of their
descent from the populations which inhabited the country, or a geographical region to which
the country belongs, at the time of conquest or colonization or the establishment of present
state boundaries and who, irrespective of their legal status, retain some or all of their own
social, economic, cultural and political institutions.
Source: International Labour Organization (ILO), Indigenous and Tribal Peoples Convention,
1989 (No. 169)
infrastructure
facilities built primarily to provide a public service or good rather than a commercial purpose,
and from which the organization does not seek to gain direct economic benefit
Examples: hospitals, roads, schools, water supply facilities
local community
L
individuals or groups of individuals living or working in areas that are affected or that could be
affected by the organization’s activities
Note: The local community can range from those living adjacent to the organization’s
operations to those living at a distance.
material topics
M
topics that represent the organization’s most significant impacts on the economy, environment,
and people, including impacts on their human rights
Note: See section 2.2 in GRI 1: Foundation 2021 and section 1 in GRI 3: Material Topics
2021 for more information on ‘material topics’.
mitigation
action(s) taken to reduce the extent of a negative impact
Source: United Nations (UN), The Corporate Responsibility to Respect Human Rights: An
Interpretive Guide, 2012; modified
66 GRI 12: Coal Sector 2022
Note: The mitigation of an actual negative impact refers to actions taken to reduce the
severity of the negative impact that has occurred, with any residual impact needing
remediation. The mitigation of a potential negative impact refers to actions taken to
reduce the likelihood of the negative impact occurring.
occupational health and safety management system
O
set of interrelated or interacting elements to establish an occupational health and safety policy
and objectives, and to achieve those objectives
Source: International Labour Organization (ILO), Guidelines on Occupational Safety and
Health Management Systems, ILO-OSH 2001, 2001
other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions *
indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions not included in energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG
emissions that occur outside of the organization, including both upstream and downstream
emissions
* Please note this term will be updated following the effective date of GRI 102: Climate Change
2025 and GRI 103: Energy 2025, as of 1 January 2027. Please see GRI 102/103 for the updated
term.
parental leave
P
leave granted to men and women employees on the grounds of the birth of a child
preparation for reuse
checking, cleaning, or repairing operations, by which products or components of products that
have become waste are prepared to be put to use for the same purpose for which they were
conceived
Source: European Union (EU), Waste Framework Directive, 2008 (Directive 2008/98/EC);
modified
protected area
geographic area that is designated, regulated, or managed to achieve specific conservation
objectives
recovery
R
operation wherein products, components of products, or materials that have become waste are
prepared to fulfill a purpose in place of new products, components, or materials that would
otherwise have been used for that purpose
Source: United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), Basel Convention on the Control
of Transboundary Movements of Hazardous Wastes and Their Disposal, 1989;
modified
Examples: preparation for reuse, recycling
Note: In the context of waste reporting, recovery operations do not include energy recovery.
recycling
reprocessing of products or components of products that have become waste, to make new
materials
Sources: United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), Basel Convention on the Control
of Transboundary Movements of Hazardous Wastes and Their Disposal, 1989;
modified
remedy / remediation
means to counteract or make good a negative impact or provision of remedy
Source: United Nations (UN), The Corporate Responsibility to Respect Human Rights: An
Interpretive Guide, 2012; modified
67 GRI 12: Coal Sector 2022
Examples: apologies, financial or non-financial compensation, prevention of harm through
injunctions or guarantees of non-repetition, punitive sanctions (whether criminal or
administrative, such as fines), restitution, restoration, rehabilitation
remuneration
basic salary plus additional amounts paid to a worker
Note: Examples of additional amounts paid to a worker can include those based on years
of service, bonuses including cash and equity such as stocks and shares, benefit
payments, overtime, time owed, and any additional allowances, such as
transportation, living and childcare allowances.
renewable energy source
energy source that is capable of being replenished in a short time through ecological cycles or
agricultural processes
Examples: biomass, geothermal, hydro, solar, wind
reporting period
specific time period covered by the reported information
Examples: fiscal year, calendar year
scope of GHG emissions *
S
classification of the operational boundaries where greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions occur
Note 1: Scope classifies whether GHG emissions are created by the organization itself, or
are created by other related organizations, for example electricity suppliers or
logistics companies.
Note 2: There are three classifications of Scope: Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3.
Note 3: The classification of Scope derives from the World Resources Institute (WRI) and
World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD), GHG Protocol
Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard, Revised Edition, 2004.
* Please note this term will be updated following the effective date of GRI 102: Climate Change
2025 and GRI 103: Energy 2025, as of 1 January 2027. Please see GRI 102/103 for the updated
term.
seawater
water in a sea or in an ocean
Source: International Organization for Standardization. ISO 14046:2014. Environmental
management — Water footprint — Principles, requirements and guidelines. Geneva:
ISO, 2014; modified
security personnel
individuals employed for the purposes of guarding property of the organization; crowd control;
loss prevention; and escorting persons, goods, and valuables
senior executive
high-ranking member of the management of the organization, such as the Chief Executive
Officer (CEO) or an individual reporting directly to the CEO or the highest governance body
services supported
services that provide a public benefit either through direct payment of operating costs or through
staffing the facility or service with an organization’s own employees
Note: Public benefit can also include public services.
severity (of an impact)
The severity of an actual or potential negative impact is determined by its scale (i.e., how grave
the impact is), scope (i.e., how widespread the impact is), and irremediable character (how hard
it is to counteract or make good the resulting harm).
68 GRI 12: Coal Sector 2022
Source: Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), OECD Due
Diligence Guidance for Responsible Business Conduct, 2018; modified
United Nations (UN), The Corporate Responsibility to Respect Human Rights: An
Interpretive Guide, 2012; modified
Note: See section 1 in GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 for more information on ‘severity’.
significant air emission
air emission regulated under international conventions and/or national laws or regulations
Note: Significant air emissions include those listed on environmental permits for the
organization’s operations.
significant operational change
alteration to the organization’s pattern of operations that can potentially have significant positive
or negative impacts on workers performing the organization’s activities
Examples: closures, expansions, mergers, new openings, outsourcing of operations,
restructuring, sale of all or part of the organization, takeovers
spill
accidental release of a hazardous substance that can affect human health, land, vegetation,
waterbodies, and groundwater
stakeholder
individual or group that has an interest that is affected or could be affected by the organization’s
activities
Source: Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), OECD Due
Diligence Guidance for Responsible Business Conduct, 2018; modified
Examples: business partners, civil society organizations, consumers, customers, employees
and other workers, governments, local communities, non-governmental
organizations, shareholders and other investors, suppliers, trade unions,
vulnerable groups
Note: See section 2.4 in GRI 1: Foundation 2021 for more information on ‘stakeholder’.
supplier
entity upstream from the organization (i.e., in the organization’s supply chain), which provides a
product or service that is used in the development of the organization’s own products or services
Examples: brokers, consultants, contractors, distributors, franchisees, home workers,
independent contractors, licensees, manufacturers, primary producers, sub-
contractors, wholesalers
Note: A supplier can have a direct business relationship with the organization (often
referred to as a first-tier supplier) or an indirect business relationship.
supply chain
range of activities carried out by entities upstream from the organization, which provide products
or services that are used in the development of the organization’s own products or services
surface water
water that occurs naturally on the Earth’s surface in ice sheets, ice caps, glaciers, icebergs,
bogs, ponds, lakes, rivers, and streams
Source: CDP, CDP Water Security Reporting Guidance, 2018; modified
sustainable development / sustainability
development that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future
generations to meet their own needs
Source: World Commission on Environment and Development, Our Common Future, 1987
69 GRI 12: Coal Sector 2022
Note: The terms ‘sustainability’ and ‘sustainable development’ are used interchangeably
in the GRI Standards.
third-party water
T
municipal water suppliers and municipal wastewater treatment plants, public or private utilities,
and other organizations involved in the provision, transport, treatment, disposal, or use of water
and effluent
value chain
V
range of activities carried out by the organization, and by entities upstream and downstream
from the organization, to bring the organization’s products or services from their conception to
their end use
Note 1: Entities upstream from the organization (e.g., suppliers) provide products or
services that are used in the development of the organization’s own products or
services. Entities downstream from the organization (e.g., distributors, customers)
receive products or services from the organization.
Note 2: The value chain includes the supply chain.
vulnerable group
group of individuals with a specific condition or characteristic (e.g., economic, physical, political,
social) that could experience negative impacts as a result of the organization’s activities more
severely than the general population
Examples: children and youth; elderly persons; ex-combatants; HIV/AIDS-affected households;
human rights defenders; Indigenous Peoples; internally displaced persons;
migrant workers and their families; national or ethnic, religious and linguistic
minorities; persons who might be discriminated against based on their sexual
orientation, gender identity, gender expression, or sex characteristics (e.g., lesbian,
gay, bisexual, transgender, intersex); persons with disabilities; refugees or
returning refugees; women
Note: Vulnerabilities and impacts can differ by gender.
waste
W
anything that the holder discards, intends to discard, or is required to discard
Source: United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), Basel Convention on the Control
of Transboundary Movements of Hazardous Wastes and Their Disposal, 1989
Note 1: Waste can be defined according to the national legislation at the point of
generation.
Note 2: A holder can be the reporting organization, an entity in the organization’s value
chain upstream or downstream (e.g., supplier or consumer), or a waste
management organization, among others.
waste disposal method
method by which waste is treated or disposed of
Examples: composting, deep well injection, incineration, landfill, on-site storage, recovery,
recycling, reuse
water consumption
sum of all water that has been withdrawn and incorporated into products, used in the production
of crops or generated as waste, has evaporated, transpired, or been consumed by humans or
livestock, or is polluted to the point of being unusable by other users, and is therefore not
released back to surface water, groundwater, seawater, or a third party over the course of the
reporting period
Source: CDP, CDP Water Security Reporting Guidance, 2018; modified
Note: Water consumption includes water that has been stored during the reporting period
for use or discharge in a subsequent reporting period.
70 GRI 12: Coal Sector 2022
water discharge
sum of effluents, used water, and unused water released to surface water, groundwater,
seawater, or a third party, for which the organization has no further use, over the course of the
reporting period
Note 1: Water can be released into the receiving waterbody either at a defined discharge
point (point-source discharge) or dispersed over land in an undefined manner
(non-point-source discharge).
Note 2: Water discharge can be authorized (in accordance with discharge consent) or
unauthorized (if discharge consent is exceeded).
water stress
ability, or lack thereof, to meet the human and ecological demand for water
Source: CEO Water Mandate, Corporate Water Disclosure Guidelines, 2014
Note 1: Water stress can refer to the availability, quality, or accessibility of water.
Note 2: Water stress is based on subjective elements and is assessed differently
depending on societal values, such as the suitability of water for drinking or the
requirements to be afforded to ecosystems.
Note 3: Water stress in an area may be measured at catchment level at a minimum.
water withdrawal
sum of all water drawn from surface water, groundwater, seawater, or a third party for any use
over the course of the reporting period
work-related hazard
source or situation with the potential to cause injury or ill health
Source: International Labour Organization (ILO) Guidelines on Occupational Safety and
Health Management Systems, 2001; modified
International Organization for Standardization. ISO 45001:2018. Occupational health
and safety management systems — Requirements with guidance for use. Geneva:
ISO, 2018; modified
Definitions that are based on or come from the ISO 14046:2014 and ISO 45001:2018 standards
are reproduced with the permission of the International Organization for Standardization, ISO.
Copyright remains with ISO.
Note: Hazards can be:
• physical (e.g., radiation, temperature extremes, constant loud noise, spills on
floors or tripping hazards, unguarded machinery, faulty electrical equipment);
• ergonomic (e.g., improperly adjusted workstations and chairs, awkward
movements, vibration);
• chemical (e.g., exposure to solvents, carbon monoxide, flammable materials, or
pesticides);
• biological (e.g., exposure to blood and bodily fluids, fungi, bacteria, viruses, or
insect bites);
• psychosocial (e.g., verbal abuse, harassment, bullying);
• related to work-organization (e.g., excessive workload demands, shift work, long
hours, night work, workplace violence).
work-related incident
occurrence arising out of or in the course of work that could or does result in injury or ill health
Source: International Organization for Standardization. ISO 45001:2018. Occupational health
and safety management systems — Requirements with guidance for use. Geneva:
ISO, 2018; modified
Definitions that are based on or come from the ISO 14046:2014 and ISO 45001:2018 standards
are reproduced with the permission of the International Organization for Standardization, ISO.
Copyright remains with ISO.
71 GRI 12: Coal Sector 2022
Note 1: Incidents might be due to, for example, electrical problems, explosion, fire; overflow,
overturning, leakage, flow; breakage, bursting, splitting; loss of control, slipping,
stumbling and falling; body movement without stress; body movement under/with
stress; shock, fright; workplace violence or harassment (e.g., sexual harassment).
Note 2: An incident that results in injury or ill health is often referred to as an ‘accident’. An
incident that has the potential to result in injury or ill health but where none occurs is
often referred to as a ‘close call', ‘near-miss’, or ‘near-hit’.
work-related injury or ill health
negative impacts on health arising from exposure to hazards at work
Source: International Labour Organization (ILO), Guidelines on Occupational Safety and
Health Management Systems, ILO-OSH 2001, 2001; modified
Note 1: ‘Ill health’ indicates damage to health and includes diseases, illnesses, and
disorders. The terms ‘disease’, ‘illness’, and ‘disorder’ are often used
interchangeably and refer to conditions with specific symptoms and diagnoses.
Note 2: Work-related injuries and ill health are those that arise from exposure to hazards at
work. Other types of incident can occur that are not connected with the work itself.
For example, the following incidents are not considered to be work related:
• a worker suffers a heart attack while at work that is unconnected with work;
• a worker driving to or from work is injured in a car accident (where driving is not
part of the work, and where the transport has not been organized by the
employer);
• a worker with epilepsy has a seizure at work that is unconnected with work.
Note 3: Traveling for work: Injuries and ill health that occur while a worker is traveling are
work related if, at the time of the injury or ill health, the worker was engaged in work
activities ‘in the interest of the employer’. Examples of such activities include
traveling to and from customer contacts; conducting job tasks; and entertaining or
being entertained to transact, discuss, or promote business (at the direction of the
employer).
Working at home: Injuries and ill health that occur when working at home are work
related if the injury or ill health occurs while the worker is performing work at home,
and the injury or ill health is directly related to the performance of work rather than
the general home environment or setting.
Mental illness: A mental illness is considered to be work related if it has been
notified voluntarily by the worker and is supported by an opinion from a licensed
healthcare professional with appropriate training and experience stating that the
illness is work related.
For more guidance on determining ‘work-relatedness’, see the United States
Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Determination of work-relatedness
1904.5, https://www.osha.gov/pls/ oshaweb/owadisp.show_document?
p_table=STANDARDS&p_id=9636, accessed on 1 June 2018.
Note 4: The terms ‘occupational’ and ‘work-related’ are often used interchangeably.
worker
person that performs work for the organization
Examples: employees, agency workers, apprentices, contractors, home workers, interns, self-
employed persons, sub-contractors, volunteers, and persons working for
organizations other than the reporting organization, such as for suppliers
Note: In the GRI Standards, in some cases, it is specified whether a particular subset of
workers is required to be used.
Bibliography
72 GRI 12: Coal Sector 2022
Bibliography
This section lists authoritative intergovernmental instruments and additional references used in developing this
Standard, as well as resources that can be consulted by the organization.
Introduction
1. European Communities, NACE Rev.2, Statistical classification of economic activities in the European Community
(NACE), Eurostat, Methodologies and Working Papers, 2008.
2. Executive Office of the President, Office of Management and Budget, North American Industry Classification
System (NAICS), 2017.
3. FTSE Russell, ICB Structure. Taxonomy Overview, 2019.
4. S&P Dow Jones Indices and MSCI Inc., Revisions to the Global Industry Classification Standard (GICS®)
Structure, 2018.
5. Sustainable Accounting Standards Boards (SASB), Sustainable Industry Classification System® (SICS®),
sasb.org/find-your-industry/, accessed on 15 January 2022.
6. United Nations, International Standard Industrial Classification of All Economic Activities, Revision 4, Statistical
Papers Series M No. 4/Rev.4, 2008.
Sector Profile
Authoritative instruments:
7. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), Climate Change 2021: The Physical Science Basis, 2021.
8. United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), Glasgow Climate Pact, 2021.
9. United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), Nationally determined contributions
under the Paris Agreement, 2021.
10. United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), Paris Agreement, 2015.
11. United Nations General Assembly, Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 25 September 2015,
Transforming our world: the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, 2015 (A/RES/70/1).
Additional references:
12. Britannica, Coal, Fossil fuel, britannica.com/science/coal-fossil-fuel#ref259096, accessed on 15 January 2022.
13. Climate Action Tracker (CAT), Warming Projections Global Update, November 2021, 2021.
14. Energy Information Administration (EIA), How much carbon dioxide is produced per kilowatthour of U.S. electricity
generation?, eia.gov/tools/faqs/faq.php?id=74&t=11, accessed on 15 January 2022.
15. P. Friedlingstein et al., 'Global Carbon Budget 2019', Earth System Science Data, vol.11, nr. 4, pp.1783–18384, 4
December 2019, doi.org/10.5194/essd-11-1783-2019.
16. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), Global Warming of 1.5°C, 2018.
17. International Energy Agency (IEA), Coal 2021, iea.org/reports/coal-2021 , accessed on 15 February 2022.
18. International Energy Agency (IEA), Coal Information: Overview, iea.org/reports/coal-information-overview,
accessed on 5 April 2021.
19. International Energy Agency (IEA), Net-zero by 2050: A Roadmap for the Global Energy Sector, 2021.
20. International Energy Agency (IEA), Phasing out unabated coal, 2021.
21. International Energy Agency (IEA), World Energy Outlook 2020, 2020, iea.org/reports/world-energy-outlook-2020,
accessed 15 January 2022.
22. International Energy Agency (IEA), World Energy Outlook 2021, 2021.
23. International Institute for Sustainable Development (IISD), State-Owned Companies Transitioning Away from
Coal, Mining and Coal-Fired Power, 2018.
24. International Labour Organization (ILO), ILO Guidelines for a just transition towards environmentally sustainable
economies and societies for all, 2015.
25. M. Jakob et al., ‘The Future of Coal in a Carbon-Constrained Climate’, Nature Climate Change, vol. 10, nr. 8, pp.
704–7, August 2020, doi.org/10.1038/s41558-020-0866-1.
26. Natural Resource Governance Institute (NRGI), The Resource Curse, 2015.
73 GRI 12: Coal Sector 2022
27. Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), International Energy Agency (IEA), OECD
Green Growth Studies: Energy, 2011.
28. Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), Arrangement on officially supported export
credits, 2020.
29. Powering Past Coal Alliance (PPCA), PPCA Members, poweringpastcoal.org/members, accessed 15 January
2022.
30. Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI), Phasing out investments in thermal coal, 2018, unpri.org/climate-
change/phasing-out-investments-in-thermal-coal/3281.article, accessed on 15 January 2022.
31. O. Sartor, Institut du développement durable et des relations internationals (IDDRI) and Climate Strategies,
Implementing coal transitions: Insights from case studies of major coal-consuming economies, 2018.
32. R. Smith, ‘These are the world's biggest coal producers’, weforum.org/agenda/2018/01/these-are-the-worlds-
biggest-coal-producers/, accessed on 15 January 2022.
33. United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), Emissions Gap Report 2019, 2019.
34. United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), World Economic Forum (WEF), Columbia Center on
Sustainable Investment, Columbia University, Mapping Mining to the Sustainable Development Goals: An Atlas,
2016.
35. United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), Just Transition of the Workforce, and the
Creation of Decent Work and Quality Jobs, 2020.
36. United Nations Human Rights Special Procedures, Safe Climate. A Report of the Special Rapporteur on Human
Rights and the Environment, 2019 (A/74/161).
37. United Nations Interagency Framework Team for Preventive Action, Extractive Industries and Conflict, 2012.
38. S. Varadhan, ‘Coal India output falls for third straight month on tepid demand’, 2020, reuters.com/article/coal-
india-output/coal-india-output-falls-for-third-straight-month-on-tepid-demand-idINKBN2426N4, accessed on 15
January 2022.
39. World Health Organization (WHO), Climate change and health, 2021, who.int/news-room/fact-
sheets/detail/climate-change-and-health, accessed 15 January 2022.
Resources:
40. GRI, Linking the SDGs and the GRI Standards, updated regularly.
41. GRI and UN Global Compact, Integrating the SDGs into corporate reporting: A practical guide, 2018.
Topic 12.1 GHG emissions
Authoritative instruments:
42. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), Climate Change 2007: The Physical Science Basis, 2007.
43. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), Climate Change 2014: Synthesis Report, 2014.
44. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), Climate Change 2021: The Physical Science Basis, 2021.
45. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), Good Practice Guidance and Uncertainty Management in
National Greenhouse Gas Inventories, 2001.
Additional references:
46. International Energy Agency (IEA), CO Emissions from Fuel Combustion Highlights, 2019.
2
47. International Energy Agency (IEA), Energy Efficiency 2018: Analysis and Outlooks to 2040, 2018.
48. International Energy Agency (IEA), Iron and Steel Technology Roadmap, 2020. iea.org/reports/iron-and-steel-
technology-roadmap, accessed 15 January 2022.
49. International Energy Agency (IEA), Methane Tracker, iea.org/reports/methane-tracker, accessed on 31 May 2020.
50. International Energy Agency (IEA), World Energy Outlook 2019, 2019.
51. International Energy Agency (IEA), World Energy Outlook 2021, 2021.
52. International Finance Corporation (IFC), Environmental, Health, and Safety Guidelines for Mining, 2007.
53. R. McSweeney, ‘Methane emissions from fossil fuels ‘severely underestimated’’, 2020,
carbonbrief.org/methane-emissions-from-fossil-fuels-severely-underestimated, accessed 15 January 2022.
54. N. Kholod, M. Evans, et al. Global methane emissions from coal mining to continue growing even with declining
coal production, 2020. doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2020.120489.
55. United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), ‘What do adaptation to climate change
and climate resilience mean?’, 2020, unfccc.int/topics/adaptation-and-resilience/the-big-picture/what-do-
74 GRI 12: Coal Sector 2022
adaptation-to-climate-change-and-climate-resilience-mean, accessed on 15 January 2022.
56. United States Energy Information Administration (EIA), Assumptions to the Annual Energy Outlook 2019:
Industrial Demand Module, 2019.
57. United States Energy Information Administration (EIA), How much carbon dioxide is produced per kilowatthour of
U.S. electricity generation?, eia.gov/tools/faqs/faq.php?
id=74&t=11#:~:text=In%202020%2C%20total%20U.S.%20electricity,CO2%20emissions%20per%20kWh,
accessed on 15 January 2022.
58. United States Environmental Protection Agency (US EPA), Overview of Greenhouse Gases,
epa.gov/ghgemissions/overview-greenhouse-gases#methane, accessed on 15 January 2022.
59. World Steel, Climate change and the production of iron and steel, 2021.
Resources:
60. Greenhouse Gas Protocol, Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard, 2011.
61. Greenhouse Gas Protocol, Global Warming Potential Values, 2015.
62. World Resources Institute (WRI), Estimating and Reporting the Comparative Emissions Impacts of Products,
2019.
Topic 12.2 Climate adaptation, resilience, and transition
Authoritative instruments:
63. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), Climate Change 2014: Impacts, Adaptation, and
Vulnerability, 2014.
64. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), Climate Change 2014: Mitigation of Climate Change, 2014.
65. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), Climate Change 2014: Impacts, Adaptation, and
Vulnerability, 2014.
66. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), Global Warming of 1.5°C, 2018.
Additional references:
67. Carbon Tracker Initiative, Carbon Budgets Explainer, 2018.
68. Carbon Tracker, Unburnable Carbon: Are the World’s Financial Markets Carrying a Carbon Bubble?, 2011.
69. E. Colombo & F. Fairhead, ‘Coal Investments: Up in Smoke?’ sustainalytics.com/esg-
research/resource/investors-esg-blog/coal-investments-up-in-smoke; accessed on 15 January 2022.
70. A. Dagnachew, A. Hof, et al., Insight into Energy Scenarios: A comparison of key transition indicators of 2°C
scenarios, 2019.
71. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), Special Report on Carbon Dioxide Capture and Storage,
2005.
72. International Energy Agency (IEA), Coal Information: Overview, iea.org/reports/coal-information-overview,
accessed on 15 January 2022.
73. International Energy Agency (IEA), Net-zero by 2050: A Roadmap for the Global Energy Sector, 2021.
74. International Energy Agency (IEA), World Energy Outlook 2018, 2018.
75. International Energy Agency (IEA), World Energy Outlook 2019, 2019.
76. International Energy Agency (IEA), World Energy Outlook 2021, 2021.
77. International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Resolution adopted at the 2016 World Conservation
Congress, Defining Nature-based Solutions, 2016 (WCC-2016-Res-069-EN).
78. J. G. J. Olivier and J. A. H. W. Peters, Trends in global CO2 and total greenhouse gas emissions: 2019 Report,
2020.
79. Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), International Energy Agency (IEA), OECD
Green Growth Studies: Energy, 2011.
80. Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), Monitoring the transition to a low-carbon
economy: a strategic approach to local development, 2015.
81. M. F. Rahman, M. Mostofa, and S. Huq, ‘Low-Carbon Futures in Least-Developed Countries’,
wri.org/climate/expert-perspective/low-carbon-futures-least-developed-countries, accessed on 15 January 2022.
82. O. Sartor, Institut du développement durable et des relations internationals (IDDRI) and Climate Strategies,
Implementing coal transitions: Insights from case studies of major coal-consuming economies, 2018.
83. Stockholm Environment Institute (SEI), International Institute for Sustainable Development (IISD), Overseas
75 GRI 12: Coal Sector 2022
Development Institute (ODI), Climate Analytics, CICERO, and United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP),
The Production Gap: The discrepancy between countries’ planned fossil fuel production and global production
levels consistent with limiting warming to 1.5°C or 2°C, 2019.
84. E. Stuart, ‘Leaving No One Behind in Sustainable Development Pathways’, wri.org/climate/expert-
perspective/leaving-no-one-behind-sustainable-development-pathways, accessed on 5 April 2021.
85. United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCC), Just Transition of the Workforce, and the
Creation of Decent Work and Quality Jobs, 2020.
86. University of Cambridge, Climate change: Action, trends and implications for business: The IPCC’s Fifth
Assessment Report, Working Group 1, 2013.
87. V. Veber, ‘Divestment: A Short-Sighted Solution for Responsible Coal Mine Closure’, bettercoal.org/divestment-a-
short-sighted-solution-for-responsible-coal-mine-closure/, accessed on 15 January 2022.
88. World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF), Asset Owner Guide on Coal Mining, 2017.
Resources:
89. International Finance Corporation (IFC), Good Practice Note: Managing Retrenchment, 2005.
90. Oxford Martin School, Oxford Martin Principles for Climate-Conscious Investment, 2018.
91. Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosure (TCFD), Guidance on Climate-related Metrics, Targets, and
Transition Plans, 2021.
92. Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures, Guidance on Scenario Analysis for Non-Financial
Companies, 2020.
93. Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosure (TCFD), Recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-
related Financial Disclosure, 2017.
94. Transition Pathway Initiative (TPI), Methodology and Indicators Report, 2019.
95. World Resources Institute (WRI), A Recommended Methodology for Estimating and Reporting the Potential
Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Fossil Fuel Reserves, 2016.
Topic 12.3 Closure and rehabilitation
Additional references:
96. P. D. Cameron and M. C. Stanley, Oil, Gas, and Mining: A Sourcebook for Understanding the Extractive Industries,
2017.
97. International Energy Agency (IEA), World Energy Outlook 2020, iea.org/reports/world-energy-outlook-2020,
accessed on 15 January 2022.
98. United Nations (UN) Tax Committee’s Subcommittee on Extractive Industries Taxation Issues for Developing
Countries, Guidance Note on the Tax Treatment of Decommissioning for the Extractive Industries, 2016.
99. J. Watts and J. Ambrose, ‘Coal industry will never recover after coronavirus pandemic, say experts’, The
Guardian, 17 May 2020, theguardian.com/environment/2020/may/17/coal-industry-will-never-recover-after-
coronavirus-pandemic-say-experts, accessed on 15 January 2022.
100.United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), Extracting Good Practices, 2018.
101.United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), Just Transition of the Workforce, and the
Creation of Decent Work and Quality Jobs, 2020.
102.World Bank, Managing Coal Mine Closure: Achieving a Just Transition for All, 2018.
103.World Bank, Mine Closure: A Toolbox for Governments, 2021.
104.World Bank, Towards Sustainable Decommissioning and Closure of Oil Fields and Mines: A Toolkit to Assist
Government Agencies, 2010.
Resources:
105.International Council on Mining & Metals (ICMM), Closure Maturity Framework – Tool for Closure User Guide,
2020.
106.International Council on Mining & Metals (ICMM), Integrated Mine Closure – Good Practice Guide, 2nd Edition,
2019.
Topic 12.4 Air emissions
Additional references:
76 GRI 12: Coal Sector 2022
107.International Energy Agency (IEA), Energy and Air Pollution: World Energy Outlook Special Report, 2016.
108.A. Markandya and P. Wilkinson, 'Electricity Generation and Health', The Lancet, vol 370, no. 9591, pp. 979–90, 15
September 2007, doi.org/10.1016/S0140-6736(07)61253-7.
109.Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), The Economic Consequences of Outdoor
Air Pollution, 2016.
110.L. Sloss, Quantifying emissions from spontaneous combustion, 2013.
111.Union of Concerned Scientists, How Coal Works, ucsusa.org/resources/how-coal-works, accessed 17 October
2020.
112.United Nations Economic Commission for Europe (UNECE), Air pollution, ecosystems and biodiversity,
unece.org/environmental-policy/conventions/envlrtapwelcome/cross-sectoral-linkages/air-pollution-ecosystems-
and-biodiversity.html, accessed on 15 January 2022.
113.World Health Organization (WHO), Air pollution, who.int/health-topics/air-pollution, accessed 31 May 2020.
114.World Health Organization (WHO), Air pollution and child health: Prescribing clean air, advance copy, 2018.
115.World Health Organization (WHO), Ambient Air Pollution: A Global Assessment of Exposure and Burden of
Disease, 2016.
Resources:
116.International Finance Corporation (IFC), Environmental, Health, and Safety Guidelines for Mining, 2007.
Topic 12.5 Biodiversity
Authoritative instruments:
117.Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), Climate Change and Biodiversity, 2002.
118.Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), Climate Change and Land, 2019.
Additional references:
119.N. Butt, H. L. Beyer, et al., ‘Biodiversity Risks from Fossil Fuel Extraction’, Science, 2013.
120.Convention on Biological Diversity, Mainstreaming of Biodiversity into the Energy and Mining Sectors, 2018.
121.Cross Sector Biodiversity Initiative (CSBI), A cross sector guide for implementing the Mitigation Hierarchy, 2015.
122.International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN), Issues Brief: Biodiversity offsets,
iucn.org/resources/issues-briefs/biodiversity-offsets, accessed on 15 January 2022.
123.M. B. J. Harfoot, D. P. Tittensor, et al., ‘Present and future biodiversity risks from fossil fuel exploitation’,
Conservation Letters, 2018.
124.Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), Biodiversity Offsets: Effective Design and
Implementation, 2016.
125.United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) and UN Environment Conservation Monitoring Center (UNEP-
WCMC), Mainstreaming of Biodiversity into the Energy and Mining Sectors: An Information Document for the 21st
Meeting of the Subsidiary Body on Scientific, Technical and Technological Advice (SBSTTA-21), 2017.
126.World Bank, Biodiversity Offsets: A User Guide, 2016.
Resources:
127.International Finance Corporation (IFC), Performance Standard 6: Biodiversity Conservation and Sustainable
Management of Natural Resources, 2012.
128.International Council for Mining and Metals (ICMM), International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation
Association (IPIECA), Equator Principles, A cross-sector guide for implementing the Mitigation Hierarchy, 2017.
129.Integrated Biodiversity Assessment Tool (IBAT) Alliance, Integrated Biodiversity Assessment Tool, ibat-
alliance.org/, accessed 15 January 2022.
Topic 12.6 Waste
Authoritative instruments:
130.European Commission, Best Available Techniques (BAT) Reference Document for the Management of Waste
from Extractive Industries, 2018.
Additional references:
131.Alberta Energy Regulator, Tailings, aer.ca/providing-information/by-topic/tailings.html, accessed on 5 April 2021.
77 GRI 12: Coal Sector 2022
132.European Commission, Mining waste, ec.europa.eu/environment/topics/waste-and-recycling/mining-waste_en,
accessed on 15 January 2022.
133.P. D. Cameron and M. C. Stanley, Oil, Gas, and Mining: A Sourcebook for Understanding the Extractive Industries,
2017.
134.International Council on Mining and Metals, About tailings, icmm.com/en-gb/environmental-
stewardship/tailings/about-tailings, accessed 15 January 2022.
135.International Finance Corporation (IFC), Environmental, Health, and Safety Guidelines for Mining, 2007.
136.C. Roche, K. Thygesen, K., E. Baker, E. (Eds.), United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), Mine Tailings
Storage: Safety Is No Accident. A UNEP Rapid Response Assessment, 2017.
137.Union of Concerned Scientists, The Hidden Cost of Fossil Fuels, 2008, ucsusa.org/resources/hidden-costs-
fossil-fuels, accessed 15 January 2022.
138.United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), Towards a Pollution-Free Planet, 2017.
139.United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), Basic Information about Surface Coal Mining in
Appalachia, epa.gov/sc-mining/basic-information-about-surface-coal-mining-appalachia, accessed 15 January
2022.
Resources:
140.International Finance Corporation (IFC), Environmental, Health, and Safety Guidelines for Waste Management,
2007.
Topic 12.7 Water and effluents
Additional references:
141.L. Allen, M. Cohen, et al., ‘Fossil Fuels and Water Quality’, The World's Water Volume 7: The Biennial Report on
Freshwater Resources, chapter 4, pp. 73-96, 2011, worldwater.org/wp-
content/uploads/2013/07/chapter_4_fossil_fuel_and_water_quality.pdf.
142.P. D. Cameron and M. C. Stanley, Oil, Gas, and Mining: A Sourcebook for Understanding the Extractive Industries,
2017.
143.Greenpeace, The Great Water Grab: How the Coal Industry is Deepening the Global Water Crisis, 2016.
144.International Energy Agency (IEA), Water Energy Nexus: Excerpt from the World Energy Outlook 2016, 2016.
145.International Energy Agency (IEA), ‘Water for Energy’, World Energy Outlook 2012, 2012.
146.United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), Towards a Pollution-Free Planet, 2017.
147.United States Environmental Protection Agency (US EPA), Profile of the Fossil Fuel Electric Power Generation
Industry, 1997.
Resources:
148.International Council for Mining and Metals (ICMM), Water Stewardship Framework, 2014.
Topic 12.8 Economic impacts
Authoritative instruments:
149.Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), OECD Principles for Private Sector
Participation in Infrastructure, 2007.
Additional references:
150.Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, Paper 7: Leveraging extractive industries for skills development to maximize
sustainable growth and employment, 2015.
151.Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI), Social and economic spending: The impact of the extractive
industries on economic growth and social development, eiti.org/social-economic-spending, accessed on 15
January 2022.
152.International Institute for Environment and Development (IIED), Breaking New Ground: Mining, Minerals and
Sustainable Development, 2002.
153.J.-F. Mercure, H. Pollitt, et al., ‘Macroeconomic impacts of stranded fossil fuels assets’, Nature Climate Change,
vol. 8, pp. 588-593, 2018, nature.com/articles/s41558-018-0182-1, accessed on 15 January 2022.
154.United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD), Extractive industries: Optimizing the value
rreetteennttiioonn iinn hhoosstt ccoouunnttrriieess,, 22001122..
78 GRI 12: Coal Sector 2022
155.K. Storey, ‘Fly-in/Fly-out: Implications for Community Sustainability’, Sustainability, vol. 2, pp. 1161-1181, 2010.
156.United Nations Office for Disaster Risk Reduction (UNISDR), Words into Action Guidelines: National Disaster
Risk Assessment, Special Topics, D. Direct and Indirect Economic Impact, 2017.
Resources:
157.Mining Shared Value (MSV), Deutsche Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ) GmbH, Mining
Local Procurement Reporting Mechanism, 2017.
158.Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), Collaborative Strategies for In-Country
Shared Value Creation, 2016.
Topic 12.9 Local communities
Authoritative instruments:
159.Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), Due Diligence Guidance for Meaningful
Stakeholder Engagement in the Extractives Sector, 2015.
Additional references:
160.Cordaid, When Oil, Gas or Mining Arrives in Your Area: Practical Guide for Communities, Civil Society and Local
Government on the Social Aspects of Oil, Gas and Mining, 2016.
161.International Finance Corporation (IFC), Unlocking Opportunities for Women and Business: A Toolkit of Actions
and Strategies for Oil, Gas, and Mining Companies, 2018.
162.Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), The Economic Consequences of Outdoor
Air Pollution, 2016.
163.United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), Extracting Good Practices, 2018.
164.United Nations Environment Programme Financial Initiative (UNEP FI), Human Rights Guidance Tool for the
Financial Sector, Mining and Metals, unepfi.org/humanrightstoolkit/mining.php, accessed on 15 January 2022.
165.The Advocates for Human Rights, Promoting Gender Diversity and Inclusion in the Oil, Gas, and Mining
Extractive Industries, 2019.
Resources:
166.International Finance Corporation (IFC), Guidance Note 4 Community Health, Safety, and Security, 2012.
167.International Finance Corporation (IFC), Performance Standard 4 Community Health, Safety, and Security, 2012.
Topic 12.10 Land and resource rights
Authoritative instruments:
168.European Union and UN Interagency Framework Team for Preventive Action, Toolkit and Guidance for
Preventing and Managing Land and Natural Resources Conflict: Land and Conflict, 2012.
169.Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), Due Diligence Guidance for Meaningful
Stakeholder Engagement in the Extractives Sector, 2015.
Additional references:
170.Avocats Sans Frontières, Human Rights Implications of Extractive Industry Activities in Uganda: A Study of the
Mineral Sector in Karamoja and the Oil Refinery in Bunyoro, 2014.
171.P. D. Cameron and M. C. Stanley, Oil, Gas, and Mining: A Sourcebook for Understanding the Extractive Industries,
2017.
172.Intergovernmental Science-Policy Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services (IPBES), Report of the
Plenary of the Intergovernmental Science-Policy Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services on the work of
its seventh session, 2019.
173.International Council on Mining & Metals (ICMM), Land Acquisition and Resettlement, 2015.
174.Pensamiento y Acción Social (PAS) and L. Turrriago, ‘Caso El Hatillo: El re-asentamiento como la legalización
del despojo y el acaparamiento de las tierras por el modelo extractivista’, pas.org.co/hatillo-despojo-
extractivista, accessed on 15 January 2022.
175.The Advocates for Human Rights, Promoting Gender Diversity and Inclusion in the Oil, Gas, and Mining
Extractive Industries, 2019.
176.United Nations Environment Programme Financial Initiative (UNEP FI), Human Rights Guidance Tool for the
79 GRI 12: Coal Sector 2022
Financial Sector, Mining and Metals, unepfi.org/humanrightstoolkit/mining.php, accessed on 15 January 2022.
177.United Nations Human Rights Office of the High Commissioner, Land and Human Rights,
ohchr.org/EN/Issues/LandAndHR/Pages/LandandHumanRightsIndex.aspx, accessed on 15 January 2022.
178.F. Vanclay, ‘Project-induced displacement and resettlement: from impoverishment risks to an opportunity for
development?’, Impact Assessment and Project Appraisal Journal, vol. 35, pp. 3-21, 2017, doi:
10.1080/14615517.2017.1278671.
Resources:
179.International Finance Corporation (IFC), Good Practice Handbook: Land Acquisition and Resettlement (draft),
2019.
180.International Finance Corporation (IFC), Guidance Note 5, Land Acquisition and Involuntary Resettlement, 2012.
181.International Finance Corporation (IFC), Performance Standard 5, Land Acquisition and Involuntary
Resettlement, 2012.
182.International Finance Corporation (IFC), Performance Standard 8: Cultural Heritage, 2012.
Topic 12.11 Rights of indigenous peoples
Authoritative instruments:
183.International Labour Organization (ILO) Convention 169, ‘Indigenous and Tribal Peoples Convention’, 1989.
184.United Nations (UN) Declaration, ‘United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples’, 2007.
Additional references:
185.Amnesty International, ‘Inter-American Court ruling marks key victory for indigenous peoples’, 2012,
amnesty.org/en/press-releases/2012/07/ecuador-inter-american-court-ruling-marks-key-victory-indigenous-
peoples-20, accessed on 15 January 2022.
186.Amnesty International, Out of sight, out of mind: Gender, indigenous rights, and energy development, 2016.
187.A. Anongos, D. Berezhkov, et al., Pitfalls and pipelines: Indigenous peoples and extractive industries, 2012.
188.J. Burger, Indigenous Peoples, Extractive Industries and Human Rights, 2014.
189.European Parliament, Committee on Foreign Affairs, Report on Violation of the Rights of Indigenous Peoples in
the World, Including Land Grabbing, 2018.
190.G. Gibson, K. Yung, et al. with Lake Babine Nation and Nak’azdii Whut’en, Indigenous communities and industrial
camps: Promoting healthy communities in settings of industrial change, 2017.
191.Global Witness, Defenders of the earth: Global killings of land and environmental defenders in 2016, 2017.
192.International Finance Corporation (IFC), Projects and People: A Handbook for Addressing Project Induced In-
Migration, 2009.
193.International Labour Organization (ILO), Observation (CEACR) – adopted 2018, published 108th ILC session
(2019) Indigenous and Tribal Peoples Convention, 1989 (No. 169) – Venezuela, Bolivarian Republic of
(Ratification: 2002), 2019,
ilo.org/dyn/normlex/en/f?p=NORMLEXPUB:13100:0::NO::P13100_COMMENT_ID,P11110_COUNTRY_ID,P1111
0_COUNTRY_NAME,P11110_COMMENT_YEAR:3962283,102880,Venezuela,%20Bolivarian%20Republic%20of,
2018.
194.B. McIvor, First Peoples Law: Essays in Canadian Law and Decolonization, 2018.
195.The Advocates for Human Rights, Promoting Gender Diversity and Inclusion in the Oil, Gas, and Mining
Extractive Industries, 2019.
196.United Nations Global Compact, A Business Reference Guide: United Nations Declaration on the Rights of
Indigenous Peoples, 2013.
197.United Nations Permanent Forum on Indigenous Issues (UNPFII), Combating violence against indigenous
women and girls: article 22 of the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples, 2012.
198.United Nations Permanent Forum on Indigenous Issues (UNPFII), Report of the international expert group
meeting on extractive industries, Indigenous Peoples’ rights and corporate social responsibility, 2009.
199.United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs (UN DESA), Climate Change,
un.org/development/desa/indigenouspeoples/climate-change.html, accessed on 15 January 2022.
200.United Nations Human Rights Council (HRC), Report of the Special Rapporteur on the rights of indigenous
peoples, James Anaya - Extractive industries and indigenous peoples, 2013.
Resources:
80 GRI 12: Coal Sector 2022
201.Equator Principles, EP4, 2020.
202.International Finance Corporation (IFC), Guidance Note 7: Indigenous Peoples, 2012.
203.International Finance Corporation (IFC), Performance Standard 7: Indigenous Peoples, 2012.
204.International Council on Mining & Metal (ICMM), Indigenous peoples and mining good practice guide, 2015.
Topic 12.12 Conflict and security
Authoritative instruments:
205.European Union (EU) and UN Interagency Framework Team for Preventive Action, Toolkit and Guidance for
Preventing and Managing Land and Natural Resources Conflict: Extractive Industries and Conflict, 2012.
206.OECD, OECD Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals from Conflict-Affected and
High-Risk Areas, 2016.
207.Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCR), Basic Principles on the Use of Force and Firearms
by Law Enforcement Officials, 1990.
208.Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCR), Code of Conduct for Law Enforcement Officials,
1979.
209.Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights, The Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights,
2000.
Additional references:
210.Institute for Human Rights and Business (IHRB), From Red to Green Flags: The Corporate Responsibility to
Respect Human Rights in High-Risk Countries, 2011.
211.International Alert, Human rights due diligence in conflict-affected settings: Guidance for extractive industries,
2018.
212.International Council on Mining & Metals (ICMM), International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC), International
Finance Corporation (IFC), and International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association
(IPIECA), Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights: Implementation Guidance Tools, 2011.
213.K. Neu, and D., Avant, Overview of the relationship between PMSCs and extractive industry companies from the
Private Security Events Database, 2019.
214.Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR), ‘Call for submissions: the relationship between
private military and security companies and extractive industry companies from a human rights perspective in
law and practice’, 2019.
215.Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR), 'Private military and security companies in
extractive industries – impact on human rights', 2017.
216.United Nations Environmental Programme (UNEP), From Conflict to Peacebuilding: The Role of Natural
Resources and the Environment, 2009.
Resources:
217.International Alert, Human Rights Due Diligence in Conflict-Affected Settings: Guidance for Extractive Industries,
2018.
218.International Council on Mining & Metals (ICMM), International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC), International
Finance Corporation (IFC), and IPIECA, Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights: Implementation
Guidance Tools, 2011.
Topic 12.13 Asset integrity and critical incident management
Additional references:
219.R. Sullivan, D. Russell, et al., Managing the Unavoidable: investment implications of a changing climate, 2009.
220.Business for Social Responsibility, Adapting to Climate Change: A Guide for the Mining Industry, 2011.
221.C. Roche, K. Thygesen, K., E. Baker, E. (Eds.), United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), Mine Tailings
Storage: Safety Is No Accident. A UNEP Rapid Response Assessment, 2017.
Resources:
222.International Council on Mining & Metals (ICMM), United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), Principles for
Responsible Investment (PRI), Global Industry Standard on Tailings Management, 2020.
223.International Council on Mining & Metals (ICMM), Health and safety critical control management, 2015.
81 GRI 12: Coal Sector 2022
224.International Council on Mining & Metals (ICMM), United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), Good
practice in emergency preparedness and response, 2005.
225.Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), Guidance on Developing Safety
Performance Indicators Related to Chemical Accident Prevention, Preparedness and Response for Industry,
2008.
226.UK Health and Safety Executive, Step-By-Step Guide to Developing Process Safety Performance Indicators, 2006.
Topic 12.14 Occupational health and safety
Authoritative instruments:
227.International Labour Organization (ILO) Convention 176, ‘Safety and Health in Mines Convention', 1995.
Additional references:
228.Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), The National Institute for Occupational Health and Safety
(NIOSH), Mining Topic: Respiratory Diseases, cdc.gov/niosh/mining/topics/RespiratoryDiseases.html, accessed
15 January 2022.
229.Health and Safety Executive (HSE), Heat stress, hse.gov.uk/temperature/heatstress, accessed on 5 April 2021.
230.International Labour Organization (ILO), Working towards sustainable development: Opportunities for decent
work and social inclusion in a green economy, 2012.
231.Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) US Department of Labor, Hydrogen Sulfide: Hazards,
osha.gov/SLTC/hydrogensulfide/hazards.html, accessed on 15 January 2022.
232.Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) US Department of Labor, Silica, Crystalline: Health
Effects, osha.gov/dsg/topics/silicacrystalline/health_effects_silica.html, accessed on 15 January 2022.
233.The Advocates for Human Rights, Promoting Gender Diversity and Inclusion in the Oil, Gas and Mining Extractive
Industries: A Women’s Human Rights Report, 2019.
234.World Nuclear Association, Naturally-Occurring Radioactive Materials, 2019, world-nuclear.org/information-
library/safety-and-security/radiation-and-health/naturally-occurring-radioactive-materials-norm.aspx, accessed
on 15 January 2022.
Resources:
235.International Labour Organization (ILO), Safety and health in underground coalmines, 2009.
236.International Council on Mining & Metals (ICMM), Good practice guidance on occupational health risk
assessment, 2016.
237.International Council on Mining & Metals (ICMM), Overview of leading indicators for occupational health and
safety in mining, 2012.
Topic 12.15 Employment practices
Authoritative instruments:
238.Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), Due Diligence Guidance for Meaningful
Stakeholder Engagement in the Extractives Sector, 2015.
Additional references:
239.International Labour Organization (ILO), Mining (coal; other mining) sector, ilo.org/global/industries-and-
sectors/mining/lang--en/index.htm, accessed on 15 January 2022.
Topic 12.16 Child labor
Authoritative instruments:
240.International Labour Organization (ILO) and International Organisation of Employers (IOE), How to do business
with respect for children’s right to be free from child labour: ILO-IOE child labour guidance tool for business, 2015.
241.International Labour Organization (ILO) Convention 138, ‘Minimum Age Convention’, 1973.
242.International Labour Organization (ILO) Convention 182, ‘Worst Forms of Child Labour Convention’, 1999.
243.United Nations (UN) Convention, ‘Convention on the Rights of the Child’, 1989.
82 GRI 12: Coal Sector 2022
Additional references:
244.International Labour Organisation, Global Estimates of Child Labour – Results and Trends 2012-2016, 2017.
245.International Labor Organization (ILO), Mining and quarrying. ilo.org/ipec/areas/Miningandquarrying/lang--
en/index.htm, accessed on 15 January 2022.
246.Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), Practical actions for companies to identify
and address the worst forms of child labour in mineral supply chains, 2017.
247.UNICEF, Children’s rights and the mining sector: UNICEF extractive pilot, 2015.
248.United States Department of Labor, 2018 List of Goods Produced by Child Labor or Forced Labor, 2018.
249.United States Department of Labor, 2020 List of Goods Produced by Child Labor or Forced Labor, 2020.
Topic 12.17 Forced labor and modern slavery
Authoritative instruments:
250.International Labour Organization (ILO) Convention 29, ‘Forced Labour Convention’, 1930.
Additional references:
251.M. Coderre-Proulx, B. Campbell, I Mandé, and International Labour Organization (ILO), International migrant
workers in the mining sector, 2016.
252.Global Slavery Index, ‘Global Findings’, Global Slavery Index 2018.
253.International Transport Workers’ Federation (ITF), ‘BHP ignores pleas to help starving crew’, 2019,
itfglobal.org/en/news/bhp-ignores-pleas-help-starving-crew, accessed 15 January 2022.
254.International Transport Workers’ Federation (ITF), ‘Bulk carrier detained in Australia, crew owed $64,000’, 2019,
itfglobal.org/en/news/bulk-carrier-detained-in-australia-crew-owed-64000, accessed on 15 January 2022.
255.International Council for Mining and Metals (ICMM), Tackling modern slavery in the mining supply chain, 2016,
icmm.uat.byng.uk.net/en-gb/case-studies/action-against-modern-slavery, accessed on 15 January 2022.
256.International Labour Organization (ILO) and Walk Free Foundation, Global estimates of modern slavery: forced
labour and forced marriage, 2017.
257.International Transport Workers’ Federation (ITF), ‘ITF and Malaviya Seven crew dismayed by delay’, 2017,
itfglobal.org/en/news/itf-and-malaviya-seven-crew-dismayed-delay, accessed on 15 January 2022.
258.National Union of Rail, Maritime and Transport Workers (RMT), ‘Modern day slavery charge made by RMT’, 2016,
rmt.org.uk/news/modern-day-slavery-charge-made-by-rmt, accessed on 15 January 2022.
259.United States Department of Labor, 2020 List of Goods Produced by Child Labor or Forced Labor, 2020.
Resources:
260.Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), Responsible Labor Initiative, Advancing modern slavery reporting to meet
stakeholder expectations, 2019.
Topic 12.18 Freedom of association and collective bargaining
Authoritative instruments:
261.International Labour Organization (ILO), 386th Report of the Committee on Freedom of Association, 2018.
Additional references:
262.International Trade Union Confederation (ITUC), 2016 ITUC Global Rights Index: The World's Worst Countries for
Workers, 2016.
263.International Trade Union Confederation (ITUC), 'Saudi Arabia bans trade unions and violates all international
labour standards', 2012, ituc-csi.org/saudi-arabia-bans-trade-unions-and, accessed on 15 January 2022.
Topic 12.19 Non-discrimination and equal opportunity
Additional references:
264.J. Soper, ‘Ghanaian Workers Fight Pay Discrimination’, 2015, pulitzercenter.org/reporting/ghanaian-workers-
fight-pay-discrimination, accessed on 31 May 2020.
265.United Nations Environment Programme Financial Initiative (UNEP FI), Human Rights Guidance Tool for the
Financial Sector, Mining and Metals, unepfi.org/humanrightstoolkit/mining.php, accessed on 15 January 2022.
266.The Advocates for Human Rights, Promoting Gender Diversity and Inclusion in the Oil, Gas, and Mining
83 GRI 12: Coal Sector 2022
Extractive Industries, 2019.
Topic 12.20 Anti-corruption
Authoritative instruments:
267.Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), Convention on Combating Bribery of
Foreign Public Officials in International Business Transactions and Related Documents, 1997.
Additional references:
268.Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI), Factsheet: Disclosing beneficial ownership, 2017.
269.Financial Action Task Force (FATF), FATF guidance: Politically exposed persons (recommendations 12 and 22),
2013.
270.International Monetary Fund, Fiscal Transparency Initiative: Integration of Natural Resource Management Issues,
2019.
271.Natural Resource Governance Institute (NRGI), Beneath the Surface: The Case for Oversight of the Extractive
Industry Suppliers, 2020.
272.Natural Resource Governance Institute (NRGI), Twelve Red Flags: Corruption Risks in the Award of Extractive
Sector Licenses and Contracts, 2017.
273.Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), Corruption in the Extractive Value Chain:
Typology of Risks, Mitigation Measures and Incentives, 2016.
274.Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), OECD Foreign Bribery Report: An Analysis
of the Crime of Bribery of Foreign Public Officials, 2014.
275.Transparency International, Corruption Perceptions Index 2018, 2018.
276.E. Westenberg and A. Sayne, Beneficial Ownership Screening: Practical Measures to Reduce Corruption Risks in
Extractives Licensing, 2018.
277.A. Williams and K. Dupuy, Deciding over nature: Corruption and environmental impact assessments, 2016.
Resources:
278.Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI), The EITI Standard, 2019.
Topic 12.21 Payments to governments
Authoritative instruments:
279.European Parliament, ‘Directive 2013/34/EU of the European Parliament and the Council of 26 June 2013 on the
annual financial statements, consolidated financial statements and related reports of certain types of
undertakings’, 2013.
280.Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), Transfer Pricing Documentation and
Country-by-Country Reporting, Action 13 - 2015 Final Report, OECD/G20 Base Erosion and Profit Shifting
Project, 2015.
Additional references:
281.M. Blom and et al, Subsidies and Costs of EU Energy, 2014.
282.Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI), Fact sheet: Project-level reporting in the extractive industries,
2018.
283.Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI), Upstream Oil, Gas, and Mining State-Owned Enterprises,
Governance Challenges and the Role of International Reporting Standards in Improving Performance, 2018.
284.K. Obeng, Tax Justice and Extractive Transparency: 'Two faces of the same coin', 2018, pwyp.org/pwyp-
resources/tax-justice-extractive-transparency-two-faces-coin/, accessed on 15 January 2022.
285.Natural Resource Governance Institute (NRGI), Twelve Red Flags: Corruption Risks in the Award of Extractive
Sector Licenses and Contracts, 2017.
286.Transparency International, Under the Surface: Looking into Payments by Oil, Gas and Mining Companies to
Governments, 2018.
287.S. Whitley et al., and Overseas Development Institute (ODI), Cutting Europe’s Lifelines to Coal: Tracking
Subsidies in 10 Countries, 2017.
Resources:
84 GRI 12: Coal Sector 2022
288.Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI), Reporting Guidelines for companies buying oil, gas and
minerals from governments, 2020.
289.Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI), The EITI Standard, 2019.
290.Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), Upstream Oil, Gas, and Mining State-Owned
Enterprises, Governance Challenges and the Role of International Reporting Standards in Improving
Performance, 2018.
Topic 12.22 Public policy
Additional references:
291.Climate investigations, Coal’s Lonely Lobbyists, 2016.
292.Competition Commission of India, Case No. 60 of 2017, 2017.
293.D. Coady, I. Parry, et al., Global Fossil Fuel Subsidies Remain Large: An Update Based on Country-Level
Estimates, 2019.
294.N. Graham, S. Daub, and B. Carroll, Mapping Political Influence: Political donations and lobbying by the fossil
fuel industry in BC, 2017.
295.European Parliament Directorate General for Internal Policies, Fossil Fuel Subsidies, 2017.
296.InfluenceMap, Climate Lobbying: How Companies Really Impact Progress on Climate, 2018,
influencemap.org/climate-lobbying, accessed on 15 January 2022.
297.InfluenceMap, Trade association and climate: Shareholders make themselves heard, 2018,
influencemap.org/report/Trade-associations-and-climate-shareholders-make-themselves-heard-
cf9db75c0a4e25555fafb0d84a152c23, accessed on 15 January 2022.
298.D. Koplow, C. Lin, et al., Mapping the Characteristics of Producer Subsidies: A review of pilot country studies,
2010.
299.Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), Lobbying, oecd.org/corruption-
integrity/explore/topics/lobbying.html, accessed on 15 January 2022.
300.Competition Commission of India, Case No. 60 of 2017, 2017.
PO Box 10039
1001 EA Amsterdam
The Netherlands
www.globalreporting.org
