GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016
306
EFFECTIVE DATE: 1 JULY 2018
TOPIC STANDARD
GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016
Topic Standard
The main contents of GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016 have been superseded by the GRI Standards GRI 303:
Water and Effluents 2018 and GRI 306: Waste 2020. This content has been blacked out in this Standard.
However, the spills-related content in Disclosure 306-3 Significant spills of GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016
remains in effect.
In its 2023-2025 Work Program, the Global Sustainability Standards Board has identified the development of a GRI
Standard for spills and leaks as a priority project for commencement.
Effective date
This Standard is effective for reports or other materials published on or after 1 July 2018
Responsibility
This Standard is issued by the Global Sustainability Standards Board (GSSB). Any feedback on the GRI Standards
can be submitted to gssbsecretariat@globalreporting.org for the consideration of the GSSB.
Due Process
This Standard was developed in the public interest and in accordance with the requirements of the GSSB Due
Process Protocol. It has been developed using multi-stakeholder expertise, and with regard to authoritative
intergovernmental instruments and widely held expectations of organizations relating to social, environmental, and
economic responsibilities.
Legal liability
This document, designed to promote sustainability reporting, has been developed by the Global Sustainability
Standards Board (GSSB) through a unique multi-stakeholder consultative process involving representatives from
organizations and report information users from around the world. While the GRI Supervisory Board, Management
Board, and GSSB encourage the use of the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI Standards) and related
Interpretations by all organizations, the preparation and publication of reports based fully or partially on the GRI
Standards and related Interpretations are the full responsibility of those producing them. Neither the GRI Supervisory
Board, Management Board, GSSB, nor Stichting Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) can assume responsibility for any
consequences or damages resulting directly or indirectly from the use of the GRI Standards and related
Interpretations in the preparation of reports, or the use of reports based on the GRI Standards and related
Interpretations.
Copyright and trademark notice
This document is copyright-protected by Stichting Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). The reproduction and distribution
of this document for information and/or use in preparing a sustainability report is permitted without prior permission
from GRI. However, neither this document nor any extract from it may be reproduced, stored, translated, or transferred
in any form or by any means (electronic, mechanical, photocopied, recorded, or otherwise) for any other purpose
without prior written permission from GRI.
Global Reporting Initiative, GRI and logo, GSSB and logo, and GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI
Standards) and logo are trademarks of Stichting Global Reporting Initiative.
© 2025 GRI. All rights reserved.
ISBN 978-90-8866-109-9
3 GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016
Content
Introduction 4
GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 5
2. Topic disclosures 6
Disclosure 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination 6
Disclosure 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 7
Disclosure 306-3 Significant spills 8
Disclosure 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste 9
Disclosure 306-5 Water bodies affected by water discharges and/or runoff 10
Glossary 11
Bibliography 12
4 GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016
Introduction
A. Overview
This Standard is part of the set of GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI Standards). These Standards are
designed to be used by organizations to report about their impacts on the economy, the environment, and society.
The GRI Standards are structured as a set of interrelated, modular standards. The full set can be downloaded at
www.globalreporting.org/standards/.
There are three universal Standards that apply to every organization preparing a sustainability report:
GRI 101: Foundation
GRI 102: General Disclosures
GRI 103: Management Approach
GRI 101: Foundation is the starting point for using the GRI Standards. It has essential information on how to use and
reference the Standards.
An organization then selects from the set of topic-specific GRI Standards for reporting on its material topics. These
Standards are organized into three series: 200 (Economic topics), 300 (Environmental topics) and 400 (Social topics).
Each topic Standard includes disclosures specific to that topic, and is designed to be used together with GRI 103:
Management Approach, which is used to report the management approach for the topic.
GRI 306: Effluents and Waste is a topic-specific GRI Standard in the 300 series (Environmental topics).
B. Using the GRI Standards and making claims
There are two basic approaches for using the GRI Standards. For each way of using the Standards there is a
corresponding claim, or statement of use, which an organization is required to include in any published materials.
1. The GRI Standards can be used as a set to prepare a sustainability report that is in accordance with the Standards.
There are two options for preparing a report in accordance (Core or Comprehensive), depending on the extent of
disclosures included in the report.
An organization preparing a report in accordance with the GRI Standards uses this Standard, GRI 306: Effluents and
Waste, if this is one of its material topics.
2. Selected GRI Standards, or parts of their content, can also be used to report specific information, without preparing
a report in accordance with the Standards. Any published materials that use the GRI Standards in this way are to
include a ‘GRI-referenced’ claim.
See Section 3 of GRI 101: Foundation for more information on how to use the GRI Standards, and the specific claims
that organizations are required to include in any published materials.
C. Requirements, recommendations and guidance
The GRI Standards include:
Requirements. These are mandatory instructions. In the text, requirements are presented in bold font and indicated
with the word ‘shall’. Requirements are to be read in the context of recommendations and guidance; however, an
organization is not required to comply with recommendations or guidance in order to claim that a report has been
prepared in accordance with the Standards.
Recommendations. These are cases where a particular course of action is encouraged, but not required. In the text,
the word ‘should’ indicates a recommendation.
Guidance. These sections include background information, explanations and examples to help organizations better
understand the requirements.
An organization is required to comply with all applicable requirements in order to claim that its report has been
prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards. See GRI 101: Foundation for more information.
5 GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016
D. Background context
In the context of the GRI Standards, the environmental dimension of sustainability concerns an organization’s impacts
on living and non-living natural systems, including land, air, water, and ecosystems.
GRI 306 addresses the topic of effluents and waste. This includes water discharges; the generation, treatment and
disposal of waste; and spills of chemicals, oils, fuels, and other substances.
The impacts of water discharges vary depending on the quantity, quality, and destination of the discharge. The
unmanaged discharge of effluents with a high chemical or nutrient load (principally nitrogen, phosphorous, or
potassium) can affect aquatic habitats, the quality of an available water supply, and an organization’s relationship with
communities and other water users.
The generation, treatment and disposal of waste – including its improper transportation – can also pose harm to
human health and the environment. This is of particular concern if waste is transported to countries lacking the
infrastructure and regulations to handle it.
Spills of chemicals, oils, and fuels, among other substances, can potentially affect soil, water, air, biodiversity, and
human health.
These concepts are covered by the Basel and Ramsar Conventions, and in key instruments of the International
Maritime Organization: see References.
The disclosures in this Standard can provide information about an organization’s impacts related to effluents and
waste, and how it manages these impacts.
GRI 306: Effluents and Waste
This Standard includes disclosures on the management approach and topic-specific disclosures. These are set out
in the Standard as follows:
• Management approach disclosures (this section references GRI 103)
• Disclosure 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination
• Disclosure 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method
• Disclosure 306-3 Significant spills
• Disclosure 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste
• Disclosure 306-5 Water bodies affected by water discharges and/or runoff
1. Management approach disclosures
Management approach disclosures are a narrative explanation of how an organization manages a material topic, the
associated impacts, and stakeholders’ reasonable expectations and interests. Any organization that claims its report
has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards is required to report on its management approach for every
material topic, as well as reporting topic-specific disclosures for those topics.
Therefore, this topic-specific Standard is designed to be used together with GRI 103: Management Approach in order
to provide full disclosure of the organization’s impacts. GRI 103 specifies how to report on the management approach
and what information to provide.
1.1 The reporting organization shall report its management approach for effluents and waste
REQUIREMENTS
using GRI 103: Management Approach.
When reporting its management approach for effluents and waste, the reporting organization
GUIDANCE
can also disclose expenditures on:
• treatment and disposal of waste;
• clean-up costs, including costs for remediation of spills as specified in Disclosure 306-3.
2. Topic disclosures
6 GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016
2. Topic disclosures
Disclosure 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
REQUIREMENTS
a. Total volume of planned and unplanned water discharges by:
i. destination;
ii. quality of the water, including treatment method;
iii. whether the water was reused by another organization.
b. Standards, methodologies, and assumptions used.
Compilation requirements
2.1 When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 306-1, the reporting organization
shall:
2.1.1 exclude collected rainwater and domestic sewage from the volume of planned and
unplanned water discharges;
2.1.2 if it does not have a meter to measure water discharges, estimate the volume of
planned and unplanned water discharges by subtracting the approximate volume
consumed on-site from the volume withdrawn as specified in Disclosure 303-1 of GRI
303: Water.
When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 306-1, the reporting organization
RECOMMENDATIONS
should:
2.2.1 if it discharges effluents or process water, report water quality in terms of total volumes of
effluent using standard effluent parameters, such as Biological Oxygen Demand (BOD) or Total
Suspended Solids (TSS);
2.2.2 select parameters that are consistent with those used in the organization’s sector.
Guidance for Disclosure 306-1
GUIDANCE
In the context of this Standard, ‘water discharge’ includes water effluents discharged over the
course of the reporting period. These effluents can be discharged to subsurface waters, surface
waters, sewers that lead to rivers, oceans, lakes, wetlands, treatment facilities, and ground
water, either:
• through a defined discharge point (point source discharge);
• over land in a dispersed or undefined manner (non-point source discharge);
• as wastewater removed from the organization via truck.
Discharge of collected rainwater and domestic sewage is not considered to be water discharge.
Guidance for clause 2.2
The specific choice of water quality parameters can vary depending on the organization’s
products, services, and operations.
Water quality metrics can vary depending on national or regional regulations.
7 GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016
Disclosure 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
REQUIREMENTS
a. Total weight of hazardous waste, with a breakdown by the following disposal methods
where applicable:
i. Reuse
ii. Recycling
iii. Composting
iv. Recovery, including energy recovery
v. Incineration (mass burn)
vi. Deep well injection
vii. Landfill
viii. On-site storage
ix. Other (to be specified by the organization)
b. Total weight of non-hazardous waste, with a breakdown by the following disposal methods
where applicable:
i. Reuse
ii. Recycling
iii. Composting
iv. Recovery, including energy recovery
v. Incineration (mass burn)
vi. Deep well injection
vii. Landfill
viii. On-site storage
ix. Other (to be specified by the organization)
c. How the waste disposal method has been determined:
i. Disposed of directly by the organization, or otherwise directly confirmed
ii. Information provided by the waste disposal contractor
iii. Organizational defaults of the waste disposal contractor
Compilation requirements
2.3 When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 306-2, the reporting organization
shall:
2.3.1 identify hazardous waste as defined by national legislation at the point of
generation;
2.3.2 exclude non-hazardous wastewater from the calculation of non-hazardous waste;
2.3.3 if no weight data are available, estimate the weight using available information on
waste
density and volume collected, mass balances, or similar information.
Background
GUIDANCE
Information about waste disposal methods reveals the extent to which an organization has
managed the balance between disposal options and uneven environmental impacts. For
example, land filling and recycling create very different types of environmental impacts and
residual effects. Most waste minimization strategies emphasize prioritizing options for reuse,
recycling, and then recovery over other disposal options to minimize ecological impacts.
8 GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016
Disclosure 306-3 Significant spills
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
REQUIREMENTS
a. Total number and total volume of recorded significant spills.
b. The following additional information for each spill that was reported in the
organization’s financial statements:
i. Location of spill;
ii. Volume of spill;
iii. Material of spill, categorized by: oil spills (soil or water surfaces), fuel spills
(soil or water surfaces), spills of wastes (soil or water surfaces), spills of
chemicals (mostly soil or water surfaces), and other (to be specified by the
organization).
c. Impacts of significant spills.
9 GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016
Disclosure 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
REQUIREMENTS
a. Total weight for each of the following:
i. Hazardous waste transported
ii. Hazardous waste imported
iii. Hazardous waste exported
iv. Hazardous waste treated
b. Percentage of hazardous waste shipped internationally.
c. Standards, methodologies, and assumptions used.
Compilation requirements
2.4 When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 306-4, the reporting organization
shall:
2.4.1 convert volumes to an estimate of weight;
2.4.2 in response to Disclosure 306-4-c, provide a brief explanation of the methodology
used
for making these conversions.
Guidance for Disclosure 306-4
GUIDANCE
This disclosure covers waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention
Annex I, II, III, and VIII (see reference 1 in the References section). It covers hazardous waste
transported by or on behalf of the reporting organization within the reporting period by
destination, including transport across operational boundaries and within operations.
The organization can calculate the total weight of transported hazardous waste using the
following equation:
Total weight of hazardous waste
transported by destination
=
Weight of hazardous waste transported to the organization by destination from external
sources/suppliers not owned by the organization
+
Weight of hazardous waste transported from the organization by destination to external
sources/suppliers not owned by the organization
+
Weight of hazardous waste transported nationally and internationally by destination between
locations owned, leased, or managed by the organization
Imported hazardous waste can be calculated as the total weight of hazardous waste transported
across international borders and which enters the boundaries of the organization, by
destination, excluding waste transported between different locations of the organization.
Exported hazardous waste can be calculated as the proportion of the total amount of transported
hazardous waste by destination that is transported from the organization to locations abroad,
including all waste that leaves the boundaries of the organization to cross international borders
and excluding transportation between different locations of the organization.
For treated waste, the organization can identify:
• the portion of the total amount of transported
and exported waste that the organization has treated, by destination;
• the portion of the total amount of waste, by destination, that is treated by external
sources/suppliers, that has been transported, exported, or imported by the organization.
10 GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016
Disclosure 306-5 Water bodies affected by water discharges and/or
runoff
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
REQUIREMENTS
a. Water bodies and related habitats that are significantly affected by water discharges and/or
runoff, including information on:
i. the size of the water body and related habitat;
ii. whether the water body and related habitat is designated as a nationally
or internationally protected area;
iii. the biodiversity value, such as total number of protected species.
Compilation requirements
2.5 When compiling the information in Disclosure 306-5, the reporting organization shall report
water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by water discharges and/or runoff that
meet one or more of the following criteria:
2.5.1 Discharges account for an average of five percent or more of the annual average
volume
of the water body;
2.5.2 Discharges that, on the advice of appropriate professionals, such as municipal
authorities, are known to have or are highly likely to have significant impacts on the water
body and associated habitats;
2.5.3 Discharges to water bodies that are recognized by professionals to be particularly
sensitive due to their relative size, function, or status as a rare, threatened, or
endangered system,
or that support a particular endangered species of plant or animal;
2.5.4 Any discharge to a wetland listed in the Ramsar Convention or any other nationally
or internationally proclaimed conservation area regardless of the rate of discharge;
2.5.5 The water body has been identified as having a high biodiversity value, such as
species diversity and endemism, or total number of protected species;
2.5.6 The water body has been identified as having a high value or importance to local
communities.
Background
GUIDANCE
This disclosure is a qualitative counterpart to the quantitative disclosures of water discharge,
and helps to describe the impact of these discharges. Discharges and runoff affecting aquatic
habitats can have a significant impact on the availability of water resources.
See references 4 and 5 in the References section.
11 GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016
Glossary
This glossary provides definitions for terms used in this Standard. The organization is required to apply these
definitions when using the GRI Standards.
The definitions included in this glossary may contain terms that are further defined in the complete GRI Standards
Glossary. All defined terms are underlined. If a term is not defined in this glossary or in the complete GRI Standards
Glossary, definitions that are commonly used and understood apply.
significant spill
S
spill that is included in the organization’s financial statements, for example due to resulting
liabilities, or is recorded as a spill by the organization
spill
accidental release of a hazardous substance that can affect human health, land, vegetation,
waterbodies, and groundwater
Bibliography
12 GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016
Bibliography
Authoritative instruments:
1. Basel Convention, ‘Ban Amendment to the Basel Convention on the Control of Transboundary Movements of
Hazardous Wastes and their Disposal’, 1995.
2. International Maritime Organization (IMO) Convention, ‘Convention on the Prevention of Marine Pollution by
Dumping of Wastes and Other Matter’ (London Convention), 1972.
3. International Maritime Organization (IMO) Convention, ‘International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from
Ships (Marpol)’, 1973, as modified by the Protocol of 1978.
4. Ramsar Convention, ‘The Convention on Wetlands of International Importance especially as Waterfowl Habitat’,
1994.
Other relevant references:
5. International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN), Red List of Threatened Species,
http://www.iucnredlist.org/, accessed on 1 September 2016.
PO Box 10039
1001 EA Amsterdam
The Netherlands
www.globalreporting.org
