GRI 404: Training and Education 2016
404
EFFECTIVE DATE: 1 JULY 2018
TOPIC STANDARD
GRI 404: Training and Education 2016
Topic Standard
Effective Date
This Standard is effective for reports or other materials published on or after 1 July 2018
Responsibility
This Standard is issued by the Global Sustainability Standards Board (GSSB). Any feedback on the GRI Standards
can be submitted to gssbsecretariat@globalreporting.org for the consideration of the GSSB.
Due Process
This Standard was developed in the public interest and in accordance with the requirements of the GSSB Due
Process Protocol. It has been developed using multi-stakeholder expertise, and with regard to authoritative
intergovernmental instruments and widely held expectations of organizations relating to social, environmental, and
economic responsibilities.
Legal Liability
This document, designed to promote sustainability reporting, has been developed by the Global Sustainability
Standards Board (GSSB) through a unique multi-stakeholder consultative process involving representatives from
organizations and report information users from around the world. While the GRI Supervisory Board, Management
Board, and GSSB encourage the use of the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI Standards) and related
Interpretations by all organizations, the preparation and publication of reports based fully or partially on the GRI
Standards and related Interpretations are the full responsibility of those producing them. Neither the GRI Supervisory
Board, Management Board, GSSB, nor Stichting Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) can assume responsibility for any
consequences or damages resulting directly or indirectly from the use of the GRI Standards and related
Interpretations in the preparation of reports, or the use of reports based on the GRI Standards and related
Interpretations.
Copyright and trademark notice
This document is copyright-protected by Stichting Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). The reproduction and distribution
of this document for information and/or use in preparing a sustainability report is permitted without prior permission
from GRI. However, neither this document nor any extract from it may be reproduced, stored, translated, or transferred
in any form or by any means (electronic, mechanical, photocopied, recorded, or otherwise) for any other purpose
without prior written permission from GRI.
Global Reporting Initiative, GRI and logo, GSSB and logo, and GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI
Standards) and logo are trademarks of Stichting Global Reporting Initiative.
© 2025 GRI. All rights reserved.
ISBN 978-90-8866-115-0
3 GRI 404: Training and Education 2016
Content
Introduction 4
1. Topic management disclosures 7
2. Topic disclosures 8
Disclosure 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 8
Disclosure 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance
10
programs
Disclosure 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and
11
career development reviews
Glossary 12
Bibliography 14
4 GRI 404: Training and Education 2016
Introduction
GRI 404: Training and Education 2016 contains disclosures for organizations to report information about their training
and education-related impacts, and how they manage these impacts.
The Standard is structured as follows:
• Section 1 contains a requirement, which provides information about how the organization manages its training
and education-related impacts.
• Section 2 contains three disclosures, which provide information about the organization’s training and education-
related impacts.
• The Glossary contains defined terms with a specific meaning when used in the GRI Standards. The terms are
underlined in the text of the GRI Standards and linked to the definitions.
• The Bibliography lists authoritative intergovernmental instruments used in developing this Standard.
The rest of the Introduction section provides a background on the topic, an overview of the system of GRI Standards
and further information on using this Standard.
Background on the topic
This Standard addresses the topic of training and education. This includes an organization’s approach to training and
upgrading employee skills, and performance and career development reviews. It also includes transition assistance
programs to facilitate continued employability, and the management of career endings due to retirement or
termination.
These concepts are covered in key instruments of the International Labour Organization and the Organisation for
Economic Co-operation and Development: see the Bibliography.
System of GRI Standards
This Standard is part of the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI Standards). The GRI Standards enable an
organization to report information about its most significant impacts on the economy, environment, and people,
including impacts on their human rights, and how it manages these impacts.
The GRI Standards are structured as a system of interrelated standards that are organized into three series: GRI
Universal Standards, GRI Sector Standards, and GRI Topic Standards (see Figure 1 in this Standard).
Universal Standards: GRI 1, GRI 2 and GRI 3
GRI 1: Foundation 2021 specifies the requirements that the organization must comply with to report in accordance
with the GRI Standards. The organization begins using the GRI Standards by consulting GRI 1.
GRI 2: General Disclosures 2021 contains disclosures that the organization uses to provide information about its
reporting practices and other organizational details, such as its activities, governance, and policies.
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 provides guidance on how to determine material topics. It also contains disclosures that
the organization uses to report information about its process of determining material topics, its list of material topics,
and how it manages each topic.
Sector Standards
The Sector Standards provide information for organizations about their likely material topics. The organization uses
the Sector Standards that apply to its sectors when determining its material topics and when determining what to
report for each material topic.
Topic Standards
The Topic Standards contain disclosures that the organization uses to report information about its impacts in relation
to particular topics. The organization uses the Topic Standards according to the list of material topics it has
determined using GRI 3.
5 GRI 404: Training and Education 2016
Figure 1. GRI Standards: Universal, Sector and Topic Standards
GRI Standards
Universal Standards Sector Standards Topic Standards
Requirements and
principles for using the
GRI Standards
Disclosures about the
reporting organization
Disclosures and
guidance about the
organization's material
topics
Apply all three Universal Use the Sector Standards that Select Topic Standards to report
Standards to your reporting apply to your sectors specific information on your
material topics
Using this Standard
This Standard can be used by any organization – regardless of size, type, sector, geographic location, or reporting
experience – to report information about its training and education-related impacts.
An organization reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards is required to report the following disclosures if it has
determined training and education to be a material topic:
• Disclosure 3-3 in GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 (see clause 1.1 in this Standard);
• Any disclosures from this Topic Standard that are relevant to the organization’s training and education-related
impacts (Disclosure 404-1 through Disclosure 404-3).
See Requirements 4 and 5 in GRI 1: Foundation 2021.
Reasons for omission are permitted for these disclosures.
If the organization cannot comply with a disclosure or with a requirement in a disclosure (e.g., because the required
information is confidential or subject to legal prohibitions), the organization is required to specify the disclosure or the
requirement it cannot comply with, and provide a reason for omission together with an explanation in the GRI content
index. See Requirement 6 in GRI 1: Foundation 2021 for more information on reasons for omission.
If the organization cannot report the required information about an item specified in a disclosure because the item
(e.g., committee, policy, practice, process) does not exist, it can comply with the requirement by reporting this to be the
case. The organization can explain the reasons for not having this item, or describe any plans to develop it. The
disclosure does not require the organization to implement the item (e.g., developing a policy), but to report that the
item does not exist.
If the organization intends to publish a standalone sustainability report, it does not need to repeat information that it
has already reported publicly elsewhere, such as on web pages or in its annual report. In such a case, the
organization can report a required disclosure by providing a reference in the GRI content index as to where this
information can be found (e.g., by providing a link to the web page or citing the page in the annual report where the
information has been published).
6 GRI 404: Training and Education 2016
Requirements, guidance and defined terms
The following apply throughout this Standard:
Requirements are presented in bold font and indicated by the word 'shall'. An organization must comply with
requirements to report in accordance with the GRI Standards.
Requirements may be accompanied by guidance.
Guidance includes background information, explanations, and examples to help the organization better understand
the requirements. The organization is not required to comply with guidance.
The Standards may also include recommendations. These are cases where a particular course of action is
encouraged but not required.
The word ‘should’ indicates a recommendation, and the word ‘can’ indicates a possibility or option.
Defined terms are underlined in the text of the GRI Standards and linked to their definitions in the Glossary. The
organization is required to apply the definitions in the Glossary.
7 GRI 404: Training and Education 2016
1. Topic management disclosures
An organization reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards is required to report how it manages each of its
material topics.
An organization that has determined training and education to be a material topic is required to report how it manages
the topic using Disclosure 3-3 in GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 (see clause 1.1 in this section).
This section is therefore designed to supplement – and not replace – Disclosure 3-3 in GRI 3.
1.1 The reporting organization shall report how it manages training and education using
REQUIREMENTS
Disclosure 3-3 in GRI 3: Material Topics 2021.
8 GRI 404: Training and Education 2016
2. Topic disclosures
Disclosure 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
REQUIREMENTS
a. Average hours of training that the organization’s employees have undertaken during the
reporting period, by:
i. gender;
ii. employee category.
2.1 When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 404-1, the reporting organization
RECOMMENDATIONS
should:
2.1.1 express employee numbers as either head count or full-time equivalent (FTE),
and disclose and apply the approach consistently in the period, and between
periods;
2.1.2 use data from Disclosure 2-7 in GRI 2: General Disclosures 2021 to identify the
total number of employees;
2.1.3 draw from the information used for Disclosure 405-1 in GRI 405: Diversity and
Equal Opportunity 2016 to identify the total number of employees by employee
category.
Guidance for Disclosure 404-1
GUIDANCE
This disclosure provides insight into the scale of an organization’s investment in training, and
the degree to which the investment is made across the entire employee base.
In the context of this Standard, ‘training’ refers to:
• all types of vocational training and instruction;
• paid educational leave provided by an organization for its employees;
• training or education pursued externally and paid for in whole or in part by an organization;
• training on specific topics.
Training does not include on-site coaching by supervisors.
To calculate the information in Disclosure 404-1, the reporting organization can use the
following formulas:
Total number of training hours provided to
employees
Average training hours per
employee = ___________________________
Total number of employees
Total number of training hours provided to female
employees
Average training hours per
female = ___________________________
Total number of female employees
Total number of training hours provided to male
employees
Average training hours per male = ___________________________
Total number of male employees
9 GRI 404: Training and Education 2016
Total number of training hours provided to each
category of employees
Average training hours per
employee category = ___________________________
Total number of employees in category
A number of calculations can be undertaken to report on employee categories. These
calculations are specific to each organization.
10 GRI 404: Training and Education 2016
Disclosure 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and
transition assistance programs
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
REQUIREMENTS
a. Type and scope of programs implemented and assistance provided to upgrade
employee skills.
b. Transition assistance programs provided to facilitate continued employability and the
management of career endings resulting from retirement or termination of
employment.
Guidance for Disclosure 404-2
GUIDANCE
Employee training programs that aim to upgrade skills can include:
• internal training courses;
• funding support for external training or education;
• the provision of sabbatical periods with guaranteed return to employment.
Transition assistance programs provided to support employees who are retiring or who have
been terminated can include:
• pre-retirement planning for intended retirees;
• retraining for those intending to continue working;
• severance pay, which can take into account employee age and years of service;
• job placement services;
• assistance (such as training, counselling) on transitioning to a non-working life.
Background
Programs for upgrading employee skills allow an organization to plan skills acquisition that
equips employees to meet strategic targets in a changing work environment. More skilled
employees enhance the organization’s human capital and contribute to employee satisfaction,
which correlates strongly with improved performance. For those facing retirement, confidence
and quality of work relations is improved by the knowledge that they are supported in their
transition from work to retirement.
11 GRI 404: Training and Education 2016
Disclosure 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular
performance and career development reviews
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
REQUIREMENTS
a. Percentage of total employees by gender and by employee category who received a
regular performance and career development review during the reporting period.
2.2 When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 404-3, the reporting organization
RECOMMENDATIONS
should:
2.2.1 use data from Disclosure 2-7 in GRI 2: General Disclosures 2021 to identify the
total number of employees;
2.2.2 draw from the information used for Disclosure 405-1 in GRI 405: Diversity and
Equal Opportunity 2016 to identify the total number of employees by employee
category.
Background
GUIDANCE
This disclosure measures the extent to which an organization regularly appraises employee
performance. This aids the personal development of individual employees. It also contributes to
skills management and to the development of human capital within the organization. This
disclosure also demonstrates the extent to which this system is applied throughout the
organization, and whether there is inequity of access to these opportunities.
Regular performance and career development reviews can also enhance employee
satisfaction, which correlates with improved organizational performance. This disclosure helps
demonstrate how an organization works to monitor and maintain the skill sets of its employees.
When reported in conjunction with Disclosure 404-2, the disclosure also helps to illustrate how
the organization approaches skills enhancement.
12 GRI 404: Training and Education 2016
Glossary
This glossary provides definitions for terms used in this Standard. The organization is required to apply these
definitions when using the GRI Standards.
The definitions included in this glossary may contain terms that are further defined in the complete GRI Standards
Glossary. All defined terms are underlined. If a term is not defined in this glossary or in the complete GRI Standards
Glossary, definitions that are commonly used and understood apply.
continued employability
C
adaptation to the changing demands of the workplace through the acquisition of new skills
employee
E
individual who is in an employment relationship with the organization according to national law
or practice
employee category
breakdown of employees by level (such as senior management, middle management) and
function (such as technical, administrative, production)
Note: This information is derived from the organization’s own human resources system.
human rights
H
rights inherent to all human beings, which include, at a minimum, the rights set out in the United
Nations (UN) International Bill of Human Rights and the principles concerning fundamental
rights set out in the International Labour Organization (ILO) Declaration on Fundamental
Principles and Rights at Work
Source: United Nations (UN), Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights:
Implementing the United Nations “Protect, Respect and Remedy” Framework, 2011;
modified
Note: See Guidance to 2-23-b-i in GRI 2: General Disclosures 2021 for more information
on ‘human rights’.
impact
I
effect the organization has or could have on the economy, environment, and people, including on
their human rights, which in turn can indicate its contribution (negative or positive) to sustainable
development
Note 1: Impacts can be actual or potential, negative or positive, short-term or long-term,
intended or unintended, and reversible or irreversible.
Note 2: See section 2.1 in GRI 1: Foundation 2021 for more information on ‘impact’.
material topics
M
topics that represent the organization’s most significant impacts on the economy, environment,
and people, including impacts on their human rights
Note: See section 2.2 in GRI 1: Foundation 2021 and section 1 in GRI 3: Material Topics
2021 for more information on ‘material topics’.
regular performance and career development review
R
review based on criteria known to the employee and his or her superior
Note 1: The review is undertaken with the knowledge of the employee at least once per
year.
Note 2: The review can include an evaluation by the employee’s direct superior, peers, or a
wider range of employees. The review can also involve the human resources
department.
sustainable development / sustainability
S
development that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future
13 GRI 404: Training and Education 2016
generations to meet their own needs
Source: World Commission on Environment and Development, Our Common Future, 1987
Note: The terms ‘sustainability’ and ‘sustainable development’ are used interchangeably
in the GRI Standards.
Bibliography
14 GRI 404: Training and Education 2016
Bibliography
This section lists authoritative intergovernmental instruments used in developing this Standard.
Authoritative instruments:
1. International Labour Organization (ILO) Convention 140, ‘Paid Educational Leave Convention’, 1974.
2. International Labour Organization (ILO) Convention 142, ‘Human Resources Development Convention’, 1975.
3. International Labour Organization (ILO) Convention 155, ‘Occupational Safety and Health Convention’ and
related Protocol 155, 1981.
4. International Labour Organization (ILO) Convention 168, ‘Employment Promotion and Protection against
Unemployment Convention’, 1988.
5. International Labour Organization (ILO), ‘Tripartite Declaration of Principles concerning Multinational Enterprises
and Social Policy’, 2006.
6. Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), OECD Guidelines for Multinational
Enterprises, 2011.
PO Box 10039
1001 EA Amsterdam
The Netherlands
www.globalreporting.org
