GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling 2016
417
EFFECTIVE DATE: 1 JULY 2018
TOPIC STANDARD
GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling 2016
Topic Standard
Effective Date
This Standard is effective for reports or other materials published on or after 1 July 2018
Responsibility
This Standard is issued by the Global Sustainability Standards Board (GSSB). Any feedback on the GRI Standards
can be submitted to gssbsecretariat@globalreporting.org for the consideration of the GSSB.
Due Process
This Standard was developed in the public interest and in accordance with the requirements of the GSSB Due
Process Protocol. It has been developed using multi-stakeholder expertise, and with regard to authoritative
intergovernmental instruments and widely held expectations of organizations relating to social, environmental, and
economic responsibilities.
Legal Liability
This document, designed to promote sustainability reporting, has been developed by the Global Sustainability
Standards Board (GSSB) through a unique multi-stakeholder consultative process involving representatives from
organizations and report information users from around the world. While the GRI Supervisory Board, Management
Board, and GSSB encourage the use of the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI Standards) and related
Interpretations by all organizations, the preparation and publication of reports based fully or partially on the GRI
Standards and related Interpretations are the full responsibility of those producing them. Neither the GRI Supervisory
Board, Management Board, GSSB, nor Stichting Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) can assume responsibility for any
consequences or damages resulting directly or indirectly from the use of the GRI Standards and related
Interpretations in the preparation of reports, or the use of reports based on the GRI Standards and related
Interpretations.
Copyright and trademark notice
This document is copyright-protected by Stichting Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). The reproduction and distribution
of this document for information and/or use in preparing a sustainability report is permitted without prior permission
from GRI. However, neither this document nor any extract from it may be reproduced, stored, translated, or transferred
in any form or by any means (electronic, mechanical, photocopied, recorded, or otherwise) for any other purpose
without prior written permission from GRI.
Global Reporting Initiative, GRI and logo, GSSB and logo, and GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI
Standards) and logo are trademarks of Stichting Global Reporting Initiative.
© 2025 GRI. All rights reserved.
ISBN 978-90-8866-128-0
3 GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling 2016
Content
Introduction 4
1. Topic management disclosures 7
2. Topic disclosures 8
Disclosure 417-1 Requirements for product and service information and labeling 8
Disclosure 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service
9
information and labeling
Disclosure 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing
10
communications
Glossary 11
Bibliography 13
4 GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling 2016
Introduction
GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling 2016 contains disclosures for organizations to report information about their
impacts related to marketing and labeling, and how they manage these impacts.
The Standard is structured as follows:
• Section 1 contains a requirement, which provides information about how the organization manages its marketing
and labeling-related impacts.
• Section 2 contains three disclosures, which provide information about the organization’s marketing and labeling-
related impacts.
• The Glossary contains defined terms with a specific meaning when used in the GRI Standards. The terms are
underlined in the text of the GRI Standards and linked to the definitions.
• The Bibliography lists authoritative intergovernmental instruments and additional references used in developing
this Standard.
The rest of the Introduction section provides a background on the topic, an overview of the system of GRI Standards
and further information on using this Standard.
Background on the topic
This Standard addresses the topic of product and service information and labeling and marketing communications.
This includes customer access to accurate and adequate information on the positive and negative economic,
environmental, and social impacts of the products and services they consume – both from a product and service
labeling and a marketing communications perspective.
Fair and responsible marketing communications, as well as access to information about the composition of
products, and their proper use and disposal, can help customers to make informed choices.
These concepts are covered in key instruments of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development:
see the Bibliography.
System of GRI Standards
This Standard is part of the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI Standards). The GRI Standards enable an
organization to report information about its most significant impacts on the economy, environment, and people,
including impacts on their human rights, and how it manages these impacts.
The GRI Standards are structured as a system of interrelated standards that are organized into three series: GRI
Universal Standards, GRI Sector Standards, and GRI Topic Standards (see Figure 1 in this Standard).
Universal Standards: GRI 1, GRI 2 and GRI 3
GRI 1: Foundation 2021 specifies the requirements that the organization must comply with to report in accordance
with the GRI Standards. The organization begins using the GRI Standards by consulting GRI 1.
GRI 2: General Disclosures 2021 contains disclosures that the organization uses to provide information about its
reporting practices and other organizational details, such as its activities, governance, and policies.
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 provides guidance on how to determine material topics. It also contains disclosures that
the organization uses to report information about its process of determining material topics, its list of material topics,
and how it manages each topic.
Sector Standards
The Sector Standards provide information for organizations about their likely material topics. The organization uses
the Sector Standards that apply to its sectors when determining its material topics and when determining what to
report for each material topic.
Topic Standards
The Topic Standards contain disclosures that the organization uses to report information about its impacts in relation
to particular topics. The organization uses the Topic Standards according to the list of material topics it has
determined using GRI 3.
5 GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling 2016
Figure 1. GRI Standards: Universal, Sector and Topic Standards
GRI Standards
Universal Standards Sector Standards Topic Standards
Requirements and
principles for using the
GRI Standards
Disclosures about the
reporting organization
Disclosures and
guidance about the
organization's material
topics
Apply all three Universal Use the Sector Standards that Select Topic Standards to report
Standards to your reporting apply to your sectors specific information on your
material topics
Using this Standard
This Standard can be used by any organization – regardless of size, type, sector, geographic location, or reporting
experience – to report information about its impacts related to marketing and labeling.
An organization reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards is required to report the following disclosures if it has
determined marketing and labeling to be a material topic:
• Disclosure 3-3 in GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 (see clause 1.1 in this Standard);
• Any disclosures from this Topic Standard that are relevant to the organization’s marketing and labeling-related
impacts (Disclosure 417-1 through Disclosure 417-3).
See Requirements 4 and 5 in GRI 1: Foundation 2021.
Reasons for omission are permitted for these disclosures.
If the organization cannot comply with a disclosure or with a requirement in a disclosure (e.g., because the required
information is confidential or subject to legal prohibitions), the organization is required to specify the disclosure or the
requirement it cannot comply with, and provide a reason for omission together with an explanation in the GRI content
index. See Requirement 6 in GRI 1: Foundation 2021 for more information on reasons for omission.
If the organization cannot report the required information about an item specified in a disclosure because the item
(e.g., committee, policy, practice, process) does not exist, it can comply with the requirement by reporting this to be the
case. The organization can explain the reasons for not having this item, or describe any plans to develop it. The
disclosure does not require the organization to implement the item (e.g., developing a policy), but to report that the
item does not exist.
If the organization intends to publish a standalone sustainability report, it does not need to repeat information that it
has already reported publicly elsewhere, such as on web pages or in its annual report. In such a case, the
organization can report a required disclosure by providing a reference in the GRI content index as to where this
information can be found (e.g., by providing a link to the web page or citing the page in the annual report where the
information has been published).
6 GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling 2016
Requirements, guidance and defined terms
The following apply throughout this Standard:
Requirements are presented in bold font and indicated by the word 'shall'. An organization must comply with
requirements to report in accordance with the GRI Standards.
Requirements may be accompanied by guidance.
Guidance includes background information, explanations, and examples to help the organization better understand
the requirements. The organization is not required to comply with guidance.
The Standards may also include recommendations. These are cases where a particular course of action is
encouraged but not required.
The word ‘should’ indicates a recommendation, and the word ‘can’ indicates a possibility or option.
Defined terms are underlined in the text of the GRI Standards and linked to their definitions in the Glossary. The
organization is required to apply the definitions in the Glossary.
7 GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling 2016
1. Topic management disclosures
An organization reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards is required to report how it manages each of its
material topics.
An organization that has determined marketing and labeling to be a material topic is required to report how it
manages the topic using Disclosure 3-3 in GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 (see clause 1.1 in this section).
This section is therefore designed to supplement – and not replace – Disclosure 3-3 in GRI 3.
1.1 The reporting organization shall report how it manages marketing and labeling using
REQUIREMENTS
Disclosure 3-3 in GRI 3: Material Topics 2021.
8 GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling 2016
2. Topic disclosures
Disclosure 417-1 Requirements for product and service information
and labeling
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
REQUIREMENTS
a. Whether each of the following types of information is required by the organization’s
procedures for product and service information and labeling:
i. The sourcing of components of the product or service;
ii. Content, particularly with regard to substances that might produce an
environmental or social impact;
iii. Safe use of the product or service;
iv. Disposal of the product and environmental or social impacts;
v. Other (explain).
b. Percentage of significant product or service categories covered by and assessed for
compliance with such procedures.
Background
GUIDANCE
Customers and end users need accessible and adequate information about the positive and
negative environmental and social impacts of products and services. This can include
information on the safe use of a product or service, the disposal of the product, or the sourcing
of its components. Access to this information helps customers to make informed purchasing
choices.
9 GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling 2016
Disclosure 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product
and service information and labeling
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
REQUIREMENTS
a. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and/or voluntary codes
concerning product and service information and labeling, by:
i. incidents of non-compliance with regulations resulting in a fine or penalty;
ii. incidents of non-compliance with regulations resulting in a warning;
iii. incidents of non-compliance with voluntary codes.
b. If the organization has not identified any non-compliance with regulations and/or
voluntary codes, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient.
Compilation requirements
2.1 When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 417-2, the reporting
organization shall:
2.1.1 exclude incidents of non-compliance in which the organization was
determined not to be at fault;
2.1.2 if applicable, identify any incidents of non-compliance that relate to events in
periods prior to the reporting period.
Guidance for Disclosure 417-2
GUIDANCE
The incidents of non-compliance that occur within the reporting period can relate to incidents
formally resolved during the reporting period, whether they occurred in periods prior to the
reporting period or not.
Background
Providing appropriate information and labeling with respect to economic, environmental, and
social impacts can be linked to compliance with certain types of regulations, laws, and codes. It
is, for example, linked to compliance with regulations, national laws, and the Organisation for
Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) OECD Guidelines for Multinational
Enterprises. It is also potentially linked to compliance with strategies for brand and market
differentiation.
The display and provision of information and labeling for products and services are subject to
many regulations and laws. Non-compliance can indicate either inadequate internal
management systems and procedures or ineffective implementation. The trends revealed by
this disclosure can indicate improvements or a deterioration in the effectiveness of internal
controls.
10 GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling 2016
Disclosure 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing
communications
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
REQUIREMENTS
a. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and/or voluntary codes
concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and
sponsorship, by:
i. incidents of non-compliance with regulations resulting in a fine or penalty;
ii. incidents of non-compliance with regulations resulting in a warning;
iii. incidents of non-compliance with voluntary codes.
b. If the organization has not identified any non-compliance with regulations and/or
voluntary codes, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient.
Compilation requirements
2.2 When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 417-3, the reporting
organization shall:
2.2.1 exclude incidents of non-compliance in which the organization was
determined not to be at fault;
2.2.2 if applicable, identify any incidents of non-compliance that relate to events in
periods prior to the reporting period.
Guidance for Disclosure 417-3
GUIDANCE
The incidents of non-compliance that occur within the reporting period can relate to incidents
formally resolved during the reporting period, whether they occurred in periods prior to the
reporting period or not.
Background
Marketing is an important method of communication between organizations and customers, and
is subject to many regulations, laws, and voluntary codes, such as the International Chamber of
Commerce (ICC)’s Consolidated Code of Advertising and Marketing Communication Practice.
An organization is expected to use fair and responsible practices in its business and dealings
with customers. Fair and responsible marketing requires the organization to communicate
transparently about the economic, environmental, and social impacts of its brands, products,
and services. Fair and responsible marketing also avoids any deceptive, untruthful, or
discriminatory claims, and does not take advantage of a customers’ lack of knowledge or
choices.
11 GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling 2016
Glossary
This glossary provides definitions for terms used in this Standard. The organization is required to apply these
definitions when using the GRI Standards.
The definitions included in this glossary may contain terms that are further defined in the complete GRI Standards
Glossary. All defined terms are underlined. If a term is not defined in this glossary or in the complete GRI Standards
Glossary, definitions that are commonly used and understood apply.
human rights
H
rights inherent to all human beings, which include, at a minimum, the rights set out in the United
Nations (UN) International Bill of Human Rights and the principles concerning fundamental
rights set out in the International Labour Organization (ILO) Declaration on Fundamental
Principles and Rights at Work
Source: United Nations (UN), Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights:
Implementing the United Nations “Protect, Respect and Remedy” Framework, 2011;
modified
Note: See Guidance to 2-23-b-i in GRI 2: General Disclosures 2021 for more information
on ‘human rights’.
impact
I
effect the organization has or could have on the economy, environment, and people, including on
their human rights, which in turn can indicate its contribution (negative or positive) to sustainable
development
Note 1: Impacts can be actual or potential, negative or positive, short-term or long-term,
intended or unintended, and reversible or irreversible.
Note 2: See section 2.1 in GRI 1: Foundation 2021 for more information on ‘impact’.
marketing communication
M
combination of strategies, systems, methods, and activities used by the organization to promote
its reputation, brands, products, and services to target audiences
Examples: advertising, personal selling, promotion, public relations, social media,
sponsorship
material topics
topics that represent the organization’s most significant impacts on the economy, environment,
and people, including impacts on their human rights
Note: See section 2.2 in GRI 1: Foundation 2021 and section 1 in GRI 3: Material Topics
2021 for more information on ‘material topics’.
product and service information and labeling
P
information and labeling are used synonymously, and describe communication delivered with
the product or service, describing its characteristics
reporting period
R
specific time period covered by the reported information
Examples: fiscal year, calendar year
sustainable development / sustainability
S
development that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future
generations to meet their own needs
Source: World Commission on Environment and Development, Our Common Future, 1987
Note: The terms ‘sustainability’ and ‘sustainable development’ are used interchangeably
in the GRI Standards.
12 GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling 2016
Bibliography
13 GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling 2016
Bibliography
This section lists authoritative intergovernmental instruments and additional references used in developing this
Standard.
Authoritative instruments:
1. Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), OECD Guidelines for Multinational
Enterprises, 2011.
Additional references:
2. International Chamber of Commerce (ICC), Consolidated Code of Advertising and Marketing Communication
Practice, 2011.
PO Box 10039
1001 EA Amsterdam
The Netherlands
www.globalreporting.org
