GRI 301: Materials 2016
301
EFFECTIVE DATE: 1 JULY 2018
TOPIC STANDARD
GRI 301: Materials 2016
Topic Standard
Effective Date
This Standard is effective for reports or other materials published on or after 1 July 2018
Responsibility
This Standard is issued by the Global Sustainability Standards Board (GSSB). Any feedback on the GRI Standards
can be submitted to gssbsecretariat@globalreporting.org for the consideration of the GSSB.
Due Process
This Standard was developed in the public interest and in accordance with the requirements of the GSSB Due
Process Protocol. It has been developed using multi-stakeholder expertise, and with regard to authoritative
intergovernmental instruments and widely held expectations of organizations relating to social, environmental, and
economic responsibilities.
Legal Liability
This document, designed to promote sustainability reporting, has been developed by the Global Sustainability
Standards Board (GSSB) through a unique multi-stakeholder consultative process involving representatives from
organizations and report information users from around the world. While the GRI Supervisory Board, Management
Board, and GSSB encourage the use of the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI Standards) and related
Interpretations by all organizations, the preparation and publication of reports based fully or partially on the GRI
Standards and related Interpretations are the full responsibility of those producing them. Neither the GRI Supervisory
Board, Management Board, GSSB, nor Stichting Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) can assume responsibility for any
consequences or damages resulting directly or indirectly from the use of the GRI Standards and related
Interpretations in the preparation of reports, or the use of reports based on the GRI Standards and related
Interpretations.
Copyright and trademark notice
This document is copyright-protected by Stichting Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). The reproduction and distribution
of this document for information and/or use in preparing a sustainability report is permitted without prior permission
from GRI. However, neither this document nor any extract from it may be reproduced, stored, translated, or transferred
in any form or by any means (electronic, mechanical, photocopied, recorded, or otherwise) for any other purpose
without prior written permission from GRI.
Global Reporting Initiative, GRI and logo, GSSB and logo, and GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI
Standards) and logo are trademarks of Stichting Global Reporting Initiative.
© 2025 GRI. All rights reserved.
ISBN 978-90-8866-104-4
3 GRI 301: Materials 2016
Content
Introduction 4
1. Topic management disclosures 7
2. Topic disclosures 8
Disclosure 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 8
Disclosure 301-2 Recycled input materials used 9
Disclosure 301-3 Reclaimed products and their packaging materials 10
Glossary 11
4 GRI 301: Materials 2016
Introduction
GRI 301: Materials 2016 contains disclosures for organizations to report information about their materials-
related impacts, and how they manage these impacts.
The Standard is structured as follows:
• Section 1 contains a requirement, which provides information about how the organization manages its materials-
related impacts.
• Section 2 contains three disclosures, which provide information about the organization’s materials-related
impacts.
• The Glossary contains defined terms with a specific meaning when used in the GRI Standards. The terms
are underlined in the text of the GRI Standards and linked to the definitions.
The rest of the Introduction section provides a background on the topic, an overview of the system of GRI Standards
and further information on using this Standard.
Background on the topic
This Standard addresses the topic of materials.
The inputs used to manufacture and package an organization’s products and services can be non-renewable
materials, such as minerals, metals, oil, gas, or coal; or renewable materials, such as wood or water. Both
renewable and non-renewable materials can be composed of virgin or recycled input materials.
The type and amount of materials the organization uses can indicate its dependence on natural resources, and the
impacts it has on their availability. The organization’s contribution to resource conservation can be indicated by its
approach to recycling, reusing and reclaiming materials, products, and packaging.
System of GRI Standards
This Standard is part of the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI Standards). The GRI Standards enable an
organization to report information about its most significant impacts on the economy, environment, and people,
including impacts on their human rights, and how it manages these impacts.
The GRI Standards are structured as a system of interrelated standards that are organized into three series: GRI
Universal Standards, GRI Sector Standards, and GRI Topic Standards (see Figure 1 in this Standard).
Universal Standards: GRI 1, GRI 2 and GRI 3
GRI 1: Foundation 2021 specifies the requirements that the organization must comply with to report in accordance
with the GRI Standards. The organization begins using the GRI Standards by consulting GRI 1.
GRI 2: General Disclosures 2021 contains disclosures that the organization uses to provide information about its
reporting practices and other organizational details, such as its activities, governance, and policies.
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 provides guidance on how to determine material topics. It also contains disclosures that
the organization uses to report information about its process of determining material topics, its list of material topics,
and how it manages each topic.
Sector Standards
The Sector Standards provide information for organizations about their likely material topics. The organization uses
the Sector Standards that apply to its sectors when determining its material topics and when determining what to
report for each material topic.
Topic Standards
The Topic Standards contain disclosures that the organization uses to report information about its impacts in relation
to particular topics. The organization uses the Topic Standards according to the list of material topics it has
determined using GRI 3.
5 GRI 301: Materials 2016
Figure 1. GRI Standards: Universal, Sector and Topic Standards
GRI Standards
Universal Standards Sector Standards Topic Standards
Requirements and
principles for using the
GRI Standards
Disclosures about the
reporting organization
Disclosures and
guidance about the
organization's material
topics
Apply all three Universal Use the Sector Standards that Select Topic Standards to report
Standards to your reporting apply to your sectors specific information on your
material topics
Using this Standard
This Standard can be used by any organization – regardless of size, type, sector, geographic location, or reporting
experience – to report information about its materials-related impacts.
An organization reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards is required to report the following disclosures if it has
determined materials to be a material topic:
• Disclosure 3-3 in GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 (see clause 1.1 in this Standard);
• Any disclosures from this Topic Standard that are relevant to the organization’s materials-related impacts
(Disclosure 301-1 through Disclosure 301-3).
See Requirements 4 and 5 in GRI 1: Foundation 2021.
Reasons for omission are permitted for these disclosures.
If the organization cannot comply with a disclosure or with a requirement in a disclosure (e.g., because the required
information is confidential or subject to legal prohibitions), the organization is required to specify the disclosure or the
requirement it cannot comply with, and provide a reason for omission together with an explanation in the GRI content
index. See Requirement 6 in GRI 1: Foundation 2021 for more information on reasons for omission.
If the organization cannot report the required information about an item specified in a disclosure because the
item (e.g., committee, policy, practice, process) does not exist, it can comply with the requirement by reporting this to
be the case. The organization can explain the reasons for not having this item, or describe any plans to develop it. The
disclosure does not require the organization to implement the item (e.g., developing a policy), but to report that the
item does not exist.
If the organization intends to publish a standalone sustainability report, it does not need to repeat information that it
has already reported publicly elsewhere, such as on web pages or in its annual report. In such a case, the
organization can report a required disclosure by providing a reference in the GRI content index as to where this
information can be found (e.g., by providing a link to the web page or citing the page in the annual report where the
information has been published).
6 GRI 301: Materials 2016
Requirements, guidance and defined terms
The following apply throughout this Standard:
Requirements are presented in bold font and indicated by the word 'shall'. An organization must comply with
requirements to report in accordance with the GRI Standards.
Requirements may be accompanied by guidance.
Guidance includes background information, explanations, and examples to help the organization better understand
the requirements. The organization is not required to comply with guidance.
The Standards may also include recommendations. These are cases where a particular course of action is
encouraged but not required.
The word ‘should’ indicates a recommendation, and the word ‘can’ indicates a possibility or option.
Defined terms are underlined in the text of the GRI Standards and linked to their definitions in the Glossary. The
organization is required to apply the definitions in the Glossary.
7 GRI 301: Materials 2016
1. Topic management disclosures
An organization reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards is required to report how it manages each of
its material topics.
An organization that has determined materials to be a material topic is required to report how it manages the topic
using Disclosure 3-3 in GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 (see clause 1.1 in this section).
This section is therefore designed to supplement – and not replace – Disclosure 3-3 in GRI 3.
1.1 The reporting organization shall report how it manages materials using Disclosure 3-
REQUIREMENTS
3 in GRI 3: Material Topics 2021.
8 GRI 301: Materials 2016
2. Topic disclosures
Disclosure 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
REQUIREMENTS
a. Total weight or volume of materials that are used to produce and package the
organization’s primary products and services during the reporting period, by:
i. non-renewable materials used;
ii. renewable materials used.
2.1 When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 301-1, the reporting organization
RECOMMENDATIONS
should:
2.1.1 include the following material types in the calculation of total materials used:
2.1.1.1raw materials, i.e., natural resources used for conversion to products or
services, such as ores, minerals, and wood;
2.1.1.2associated process materials, i.e., materials that are needed for the
manufacturing process but are not part of the final product, such as
lubricants for manufacturing machinery;
2.1.1.3semi-manufactured goods or parts, including all forms of materials and
components other than raw materials that are part of the final product;
2.1.1.4materials for packaging purposes, including paper, cardboard and
plastics;
2.1.2 report, for each material type, whether it was purchased from external suppliers or
sourced internally (such as by captive production and extraction activities);
2.1.3 report whether these data are estimated or sourced from direct measurements;
2.1.4 if estimation is required, report the methods used.
Guidance for Disclosure 301-1
GUIDANCE
The reported usage data are to reflect the material in its original state, and not to be presented
with further data manipulation, such as reporting it as ‘dry weight’.
9 GRI 301: Materials 2016
Disclosure 301-2 Recycled input materials used
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
REQUIREMENTS
a. Percentage of recycled input materials used to manufacture the organization's primary
products and services.
Compilation requirements
2.2 When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 301-2, the reporting
organization shall:
2.2.1 use the total weight or volume of materials used as specified in Disclosure
301-1;
2.2.2 calculate the percentage of recycled input materials used by applying the
following formula:
Total recycled input materials used
Percentage of
_______________________________
recycled input = x 100
materials used
Total input materials used
2.3 When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 301-2, the reporting organization
RECOMMENDATIONS
should, if estimation is required, report the methods used.
Guidance for Disclosure 301-2
GUIDANCE
If material weight and volume measurements are stated as different units, the organization can
convert measurements to standardized units.
10 GRI 301: Materials 2016
Disclosure 301-3 Reclaimed products and their packaging materials
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
REQUIREMENTS
a. Percentage of reclaimed products and their packaging materials for each product
category.
b. How the data for this disclosure have been collected.
Compilation requirements
2.4 When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 301-3, the reporting
organization shall:
2.4.1 exclude rejects and recalls of products;
2.4.2 calculate the percentage of reclaimed products and their packaging materials
for each product category using the following formula:
Products and their packaging
materials reclaimed within the
Percentage of reporting period
reclaimed products
and their packaging = _______________________________ x 100
materials
Products sold within the reporting
period
Guidance for Disclosure 301-3
GUIDANCE
The reporting organization can also report recycling or reuse of packaging separately.
11 GRI 301: Materials 2016
Glossary
This glossary provides definitions for terms used in this Standard. The organization is required to apply these
definitions when using the GRI Standards.
The definitions included in this glossary may contain terms that are further defined in the complete GRI Standards
Glossary. All defined terms are underlined. If a term is not defined in this glossary or in the complete GRI Standards
Glossary, definitions that are commonly used and understood apply.
human rights
H
rights inherent to all human beings, which include, at a minimum, the rights set out in the United
Nations (UN) International Bill of Human Rights and the principles concerning fundamental
rights set out in the International Labour Organization (ILO) Declaration on Fundamental
Principles and Rights at Work
Source: United Nations (UN), Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights:
Implementing the United Nations “Protect, Respect and Remedy” Framework, 2011;
modified
Note: See Guidance to 2-23-b-i in GRI 2: General Disclosures 2021 for more information
on ‘human rights’.
impact
I
effect the organization has or could have on the economy, environment, and people, including on
their human rights, which in turn can indicate its contribution (negative or positive) to sustainable
development
Note 1: Impacts can be actual or potential, negative or positive, short-term or long-term,
intended or unintended, and reversible or irreversible.
Note 2: See section 2.1 in GRI 1: Foundation 2021 for more information on ‘impact’.
material topics
M
topics that represent the organization’s most significant impacts on the economy, environment,
and people, including impacts on their human rights
Note: See section 2.2 in GRI 1: Foundation 2021 and section 1 in GRI 3: Material Topics
2021 for more information on ‘material topics’.
non-renewable material
N
resource that does not renew in short time periods
Examples: coal, gas, metals, minerals, oil
product or service category
P
group of related products or services sharing a common, managed set of features that satisfy
the specific needs of a selected market
reclaimed
R
refers to collecting, reusing, or recycling products and their packaging materials at the end of
their useful lives
Note 1: Collection and treatment can be carried out by the manufacturer of the product or by
a contractor.
Note 2: Reclaimed items can include products and their packaging materials that are
collected by or on behalf of the organization; separated into raw materials (such as
steel, glass, paper, some kinds of plastic) or components; and/or used by the
organization or other users.
recycled input material
material that replaces virgin materials, which are purchased or obtained from internal or external
sources, and that are not by-products and non-product outputs (NPO) produced by the
organization
12 GRI 301: Materials 2016
renewable material
material that is derived from plentiful resources that are quickly replenished by ecological cycles
or agricultural processes, so that the services provided by these and other linked resources are
not endangered and remain available for the next generation
Source: European Environment Information and Observation Network (EIONET), GEMET
Thesaurus – Renewable Raw Material,
http://www.eionet.europa.eu/gemet/concept?ns=1&cp=7084, accessed on 1
September 2016; modified
Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), Resource
Productivity in the G8 and the OECD – A report in the Framework of the Kobe 3R
Action Plan, http://www.oecd.org/env/waste/47944428.pdf, accessed on 1
September 2016; modified
United Nations (UN), European Commission (EC), International Monetary Fund
(IMF), Organisation for Economic and Co-operation and Development (OECD), and
World Bank, Integrated Environmental and Economic Accounting – Handbook of
National Accounting, 2003; modified
sustainable development / sustainability
S
development that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future
generations to meet their own needs
Source: World Commission on Environment and Development, Our Common Future, 1987
Note: The terms ‘sustainability’ and ‘sustainable development’ are used interchangeably
in the GRI Standards.
PO Box 10039
1001 EA Amsterdam
The Netherlands
www.globalreporting.org
