GRI 13: Agriculture, Aquaculture and
Fishing Sectors 2022
13
EFFECTIVE DATE: 1 JANUARY 2024
SECTOR STANDARD
GRI 13: Agriculture, Aquaculture and Fishing
Sectors 2022
Sector Standard
Effective Date
This Standard is effective for reports or other materials published on or after 1 January 2024
Responsibility
This Standard is issued by the Global Sustainability Standards Board (GSSB). Any feedback on the GRI Standards
can be submitted to gssbsecretariat@globalreporting.org for the consideration of the GSSB.
Due Process
This Standard was developed in the public interest and in accordance with the requirements of the GSSB Due
Process Protocol. It has been developed using multi-stakeholder expertise, and with regard to authoritative
intergovernmental instruments and widely held expectations of organizations relating to social, environmental, and
economic responsibilities.
Legal Liability
This document, designed to promote sustainability reporting, has been developed by the Global Sustainability
Standards Board (GSSB) through a unique multi-stakeholder consultative process involving representatives from
organizations and report information users from around the world. While the GRI Supervisory Board, Management
Board, and GSSB encourage the use of the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI Standards) and related
Interpretations by all organizations, the preparation and publication of reports based fully or partially on the GRI
Standards and related Interpretations are the full responsibility of those producing them. Neither the GRI Supervisory
Board, Management Board, GSSB, nor Stichting Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) can assume responsibility for any
consequences or damages resulting directly or indirectly from the use of the GRI Standards and related
Interpretations in the preparation of reports, or the use of reports based on the GRI Standards and related
Interpretations.
Copyright and trademark notice
This document is copyright-protected by Stichting Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). The reproduction and distribution
of this document for information and/or use in preparing a sustainability report is permitted without prior permission
from GRI. However, neither this document nor any extract from it may be reproduced, stored, translated, or transferred
in any form or by any means (electronic, mechanical, photocopied, recorded, or otherwise) for any other purpose
without prior written permission from GRI.
Global Reporting Initiative, GRI and logo, GSSB and logo, and GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI
Standards) and logo are trademarks of Stichting Global Reporting Initiative.
© 2025 GRI. All rights reserved.
ISBN 978-90-8866-138-9
3 GRI 13: Agriculture, Aquaculture and Fishing Sectors 2022
Content
Introduction 5
Sectors this Standard applies to 5
System of GRI Standards 6
Using this Standard 7
1. Sector profile 10
Sector activities and business relationships 10
The sectors and sustainable development 12
2. Likely material topics 14
Topic 13.1 Emissions 14
Topic 13.2 Climate adaptation and resilience 16
Topic 13.3 Biodiversity 18
Topic 13.4 Natural ecosystem conversion 21
Topic 13.5 Soil health 23
Topic 13.6 Pesticides use 25
Topic 13.7 Water and effluents 27
Topic 13.8 Waste 29
Topic 13.9 Food security 31
Topic 13.10 Food safety 33
Topic 13.11 Animal health and welfare 35
Topic 13.12 Local communities 37
Topic 13.13 Land and resource rights 39
Topic 13.14 Rights of indigenous peoples 41
Topic 13.15 Non-discrimination and equal opportunity 43
Topic 13.16 Forced or compulsory labor 45
Topic 13.17 Child labor 47
Topic 13.18 Freedom of association and collective bargaining 49
Topic 13.19 Occupational health and safety 51
Topic 13.20 Employment practices 54
Topic 13.21 Living income and living wage 55
Topic 13.22 Economic inclusion 58
Topic 13.23 Supply chain traceability 60
Topic 13.24 Public policy 62
4 GRI 13: Agriculture, Aquaculture and Fishing Sectors 2022
Topic 13.25 Anti-competitive behavior 64
Topic 13.26 Anti-corruption 66
Glossary 68
Bibliography 78
5 GRI 13: Agriculture, Aquaculture and Fishing Sectors 2022
Introduction
GRI 13: Agriculture, Aquaculture and Fishing Sectors 2022 provides information for organizations in the agriculture,
aquaculture, and fishing sectors about their likely material topics. These topics are likely to be material for
organizations in the sectors on the basis of the sectors’ most significant impacts on the economy, environment, and
people, including on their human rights.
GRI 13 also contains a list of disclosures for organizations in the agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing sectors to
report in relation to each likely material topic. This includes disclosures from the GRI Topic Standards and other
sources.
This Standard is structured as follows:
• Section 1 provides a high-level overview of the agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing sectors, including their
activities, business relationships, context, and the connections between the United Nations Sustainable
Development Goals (SDGs) and the likely material topics for the sectors.
• Section 2 outlines the topics that are likely to be material for organizations in the agriculture, aquaculture, and
fishing sectors and, therefore potentially merit reporting. For each likely material topic, the sectors’ most significant
impacts are described and disclosures to report information about the organization’s impacts in relation to the
topic are listed.
• The Glossary contains defined terms with a specific meaning when used in the GRI Standards. The terms are
underlined in the text and linked to the definitions.
• The Bibliography lists the authoritative intergovernmental instruments and additional references used in
developing this Standard, listed by topic. It also lists further resources that the organization can consult.
The rest of the Introduction section provides an overview of the sectors this Standard applies to, an overview of the
system of GRI Standards, and further information on using this Standard.
Sectors this Standard applies to
GRI 13 applies to organizations undertaking any of the following:
• Crop production
• Animal production
• Aquaculture
• Fishing
This Standard can be used by any organization in the agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing sectors, regardless of size,
type, geographic location, or reporting experience.
The organization must use all applicable Sector Standards for the sectors in which it has substantial activities.
Sector classifications
Table 1 lists industry groupings relevant to the agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing sectors covered in this Standard
in the Global Industry Classification Standard (GICS®) [4], the Industry Classification Benchmark (ICB) [3], the
International Standard Industrial Classification of All Economic Activities (ISIC) [6], and the Sustainable Industry
Classification System (SICS®) [5].1 The table is intended to assist an organization in identifying whether GRI 13
applies to it and is for reference only.
1 The relevant industry groupings in the Statistical Classification of Economic Activities in the European Community (NACE) [1] and the North
American Industry Classification System (NAICS) [2] can also be established through available concordances with the International Standard
Industrial Classification (ISIC).
6 GRI 13: Agriculture, Aquaculture and Fishing Sectors 2022
Table 1. Industry groupings relevant to the agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing sectors in other classification
systems
CLASSIFICATION SYSTEM CLASSIFICATION NUMBER CLASSIFICATION NAME
GICS® 30202010 Agricultural Products
ICB 45102010 Farming, Fishing and Plantations
ISIC A1 Crop and animal production (excluding
A3 hunting)
Fishing and aquaculture
SICS® FB-AG Agricultural Products
FB-MP Meat, Poultry and Dairy
System of GRI Standards
This Standard is part of the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI Standards). The GRI Standards enable an
organization to report information about its most significant impacts on the economy, environment, and people,
including impacts on their human rights, and how it manages these impacts.
The GRI Standards are structured as a system of interrelated standards that are organized into three series: GRI
Universal Standards, GRI Sector Standards, and GRI Topic Standards (see Figure 1 in this Standard).
Universal Standards: GRI 1, GRI 2 and GRI 3
GRI 1: Foundation 2021 specifies the requirements that the organization must comply with to report in accordance
with the GRI Standards. The organization begins using the GRI Standards by consulting GRI 1.
GRI 2: General Disclosures 2021 contains disclosures that the organization uses to provide information about its
reporting practices and other organizational details, such as its activities, governance, and policies.
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 provides guidance on how to determine material topics. It also contains disclosures that
the organization uses to report information about its process of determining material topics, its list of material topics,
and how it manages each topic.
Sector Standards
The Sector Standards provide information for organizations about their likely material topics. The organization uses
the Sector Standards that apply to its sectors when determining its material topics and when determining what to
report for each material topic.
Topic Standards
The Topic Standards contain disclosures that the organization uses to report information about its impacts in relation
to particular topics. The organization uses the Topic Standards according to the list of material topics it has
determined using GRI 3.
7 GRI 13: Agriculture, Aquaculture and Fishing Sectors 2022
Figure 1. GRI Standards: Universal, Sector and Topic Standards
GRI Standards
Universal Standards Sector Standards Topic Standards
Requirements and
principles for using the
GRI Standards
Disclosures about the
reporting organization
Disclosures and
guidance about the
organization's material
topics
Apply all three Universal Use the Sector Standards that Select Topic Standards to report
Standards to your reporting apply to your sectors specific information on your
material topics
Using this Standard
An organization in the agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing sectors reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards is
required to use this Standard when determining its material topics and then when determining what information to
report for the material topics.
Determining material topics
Material topics represent an organization's most significant impacts on the economy, environment, and people,
including their human rights.
Section 1 of this Standard provides contextual information that can help the organization in identifying and assessing
its impacts.
Section 2 outlines the topics that are likely to be material for organizations in the agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing
sectors. The organization is required to review each topic described and determine whether it is a material topic for it.
The organization needs to use this Standard when determining its material topics. However, circumstances for each
organization vary, and the organization needs to determine its material topics according to its specific circumstances,
such as its business model; geographic, cultural, and legal operating context; ownership structure; and the nature of
its impacts. Because of this, not all topics listed in this Standard may be material for all organizations in the
agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing sectors. See GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 for step-by-step guidance on how to
determine material topics.
If the organization has determined any of the topics included in this Standard as not material, then the organization is
required to list them in the GRI content index and explain why they are not material.
See Requirement 3 in GRI 1 Foundation 2021 and Box 5 in GRI 3 for more information on using Sector Standards to
determine material topics.
8 GRI 13: Agriculture, Aquaculture and Fishing Sectors 2022
Determining what to report
For each material topic, an organization reports information about its impacts and how it manages these impacts.
Once an organization has determined a topic included in this Standard to be material, the Standard also helps the
organization identify disclosures to report information about its impacts relating to that topic.
For each topic in section 2 of this Standard, a reporting sub-section is included. These sub-sections list disclosures
from the GRI Topic Standards that are relevant to the topic. They may also list additional sector disclosures and
recommendations for the organization to report. This is done in cases where the Topic Standards do not provide
disclosures, or where the disclosures from the Topic Standards do not provide sufficient information about the
organization’s impacts in relation to a topic. These additional sector disclosures and recommendations may be
based on other sources. Figure 2 illustrates how the reporting included in each topic is structured.
The organization is required to report the disclosures from the Topic Standards listed for those topics it has
determined to be material. If any of the Topic Standards disclosures listed are not relevant to the organization’s
impacts, the organization is not required to report them. However, the organization is required to list these disclosures
in the GRI content index and provide ‘not applicable’ as the reason for omission for not reporting the disclosures. See
Requirement 6 in GRI 1: Foundation 2021 for more information on reasons for omission.
The additional sector disclosures and recommendations outline further information which has been identified as
relevant for organizations in the agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing sectors to report in relation to a topic. The
organization should provide sufficient information about its impacts in relation to each material topic, so that
information users can make informed assessments and decisions about the organization. For this reason, reporting
these additional sector disclosures and recommendations is encouraged, however it is not a requirement. When the
organization reports additional sector disclosures, it is required to list them in the GRI content index (see
Requirement 7 in GRI 1).
If the organization reports information that applies to more than one material topic, it does not need to repeat it for
each topic. The organization can report this information once, with a clear explanation of all the topics it covers. If the
organization intends to publish a standalone sustainability report, it does not need to repeat information that it has
already reported publicly elsewhere, such as on web pages or in its annual report. In such a case, the organization
can report on a required disclosure by providing a reference in the GRI content index as to where this information can
be found (e.g., by providing a link to the web page or citing the page in the annual report where the information has
been published). See Requirement 5 in GRI 1 for more information on using Sector Standards to report disclosures.
GRI Sector Standard reference numbers
GRI Sector Standard reference numbers are included for all disclosures listed in this Standard, both those from GRI
Standards and additional sector disclosures. When listing the disclosures from this Standard in the GRI content
index, the organization is required to include the associated GRI Sector Standard reference numbers (see
Requirement 7 in GRI 1: Foundation 2021). This identifier helps information users assess which of the disclosures
listed in the applicable Sector Standards are included in the organization’s reporting.
Defined terms
Defined terms are underlined in the text of the GRI Standards and linked to their definitions in the Glossary. The
organization is required to apply the definitions in the Glossary.
References and resources
The authoritative intergovernmental instruments and additional references used in developing this Standard, as well
as further resources that may help report on likely material topics and can be consulted by the organization are listed
in the Bibliography. These complement the references and resources listed in GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 and in the
GRI Topic Standards.
9 GRI 13: Agriculture, Aquaculture and Fishing Sectors 2022
Figure 2. Structure of reporting included in each topic
1 Management of the topic
The organization is required to report how it manages
each material topic using Disclosure 3-3 in GRI 3:
Material Topics 2021.
2 Topic Standards disclosures
Disclosures from the GRI Topic Standards that have
been identified as relevant for organizations in the
5
sector(s) are listed here. When the topic is determined by
the organization as material, it is required to report those
1
disclosures or explain why they are not applicable in the
3 GRI context index. See the Topic Standard for the content
of the disclosure, including requirements,
recommendations, and guidance.
3 Additional sector recommendations
2 Additional sector recommendations may be listed. These
complement Topic Standards disclosures and are
recommended for an organization in the sector(s).
4 Additional sector disclosures
4 Additional sector disclosures may be listed. Reporting
these, together with any Topic Standards disclosures,
ensures the organization reports sufficient information
about its impacts in relation to the topic.
5 Sector Standard reference numbers
GRI Sector Standard reference numbers are required to
be included in the GRI Content Index. This helps
information users assess which of the disclosures listed
in the Sector Standards are included in the organization’s
reporting.
1. Sector profile
10 GRI 13: Agriculture, Aquaculture and Fishing Sectors 2022
1. Sector profile
The agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing sectors produce essential food and non-food items, such as fibers, fuels,
and rubber products. They play a major role in global development as a provider of food for human consumption and
supplier of materials to other economic sectors, such as textiles, construction materials, pharmaceuticals, and the
production of biofuels.
Production levels and value created by the sectors have increased in almost all countries across the globe in the past
20 years. However, their contribution to global gross domestic product (GDP) across this time period has stayed
consistent at about 4%.2 Despite this relatively limited global economic contribution, the sector has an outsized
impact in developing countries and on those in rural areas. In some developing countries, it accounts for more than a
quarter of GDP [20].
Demand for the products of the sectors is projected to grow into the future, driven by a growing population and
changes in income levels. Future production will also be influenced by demographic, socio-cultural, and lifestyle
changes, as well as consumer awareness of health and sustainability issues [30].
Agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing operations can be formally or informally organized as large-scale or small-scale
business enterprises. Operations can also include households, cooperatives, and government institutions. These
organizations can own or operate farms, fishing vessels, mills, and hatcheries. Vertically integrated organizations can
directly own or manage production, storage, processing, and distribution.
Sector activities and business relationships
Through their activities and business relationships, organizations can have an effect on the economy, environment,
and people, and in turn make negative or positive contributions to sustainable development. When determining its
material topics, the organization should consider the impacts of both its activities and its business relationships.
Activities
The impacts of an organization vary according to the types of activities it undertakes. The following list outlines some
of the key activities of the agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing sectors, as defined in this Standard. This list is not
exhaustive.
Crop production
Production: growing and harvesting seeds, trees for rubber and latex, and all crops, such as cereals, vegetables,
fruits, fibers, and other types; gathering berries, nuts, mushrooms, and sap.
Primary processing: cleaning, grading, hulling, pounding, and milling grains; soaking, heating, and drying leaves;
extracting and filtering oils.
Aggregation: aggregating crop produce from multiple sources at farm level for sale to downstream markets, which
can involve transaction by intermediary organizations or single actors.
Storage: keeping crops in a way that preserves their quality and keeps them safe from, for example, molds, yeasts,
and rodents.
Transportation: using traditional or mechanized transportation to move crops.
Trading: buying and selling crops.
Animal production
Production: breeding and rearing livestock and poultry; collecting live animal products, such as meat, milk, eggs,
honey, and wool; farming insects; raising animals in captivity; feeding animals; operating animal farms.
Primary processing: cleaning and washing animal products; processing milk; candling eggs; slaughtering animals
for meat; deboning, cutting, smoking, and freezing meat; separating fur, skins, feathers, and down.
Aggregation: aggregating animal products from multiple farms for sale to downstream markets, which can involve
transaction by intermediary organizations or single actors.
2 This figure is based on the agriculture, forestry and fishing sector as defined in the International Standard Industrial Classification of All Economic
Activities (ISIC) which includes crop and animal production, hunting and related service activities, forestry and logging, and fishing and aquaculture
[20].
11 GRI 13: Agriculture, Aquaculture and Fishing Sectors 2022
Storage: keeping animal products in a way that preserves their quality and keeps them safe from, for example,
harmful bacteria.
Transportation: using traditional or mechanized transportation to move live animals and animal products.
Trading: buying and selling live animals and animal products.
Aquaculture
Production: growing of algae and other seaweeds; culturing or farming of aquatic organisms, such as fish, mollusks,
and crustaceans, in captive conditions that involve regular stocking, feeding, and protecting against predators; this
includes both capture-based aquaculture (CBA) and hatchery-based aquaculture (HBA) systems.
Primary processing: slaughtering and deshelling produced aquatic organisms; undertaking service activities
incidental to the operation of fish hatcheries and fish farms.
Aggregation: aggregating fish, mollusks, and crustaceans from multiple sources for sale to downstream markets,
which can involve transaction by intermediary organizations or single actors.
Storage: keeping aquaculture products in a way that preserves their quality and keeps them safe from, for example,
harmful bacteria.
Transportation: using traditional or mechanized transportation to move aquaculture products.
Trading: buying and selling aquaculture products.
Fishing
Fishing: capturing wild aquatic organisms, such as fish, mollusks, and crustaceans, via shore-based netting or
commercial fishing vessels in inshore, coastal, or offshore waters.
Primary processing: onboard handling of live wild aquatic organisms after capture and through to the point of
landing.
Aggregation: aggregating fish, mollusks, and crustaceans from multiple sources to downstream markets, which can
involve transaction by intermediary organizations or single actors.
Storage: keeping fishing products3 in a way that preserves their quality and keeps them safe from, for example,
harmful bacteria.
Transportation: using traditional or mechanized transportation to move fishing products.
Trading: buying and selling fishing products.
Business relationships
An organization’s business relationships include relationships that it has with business partners, with entities in its
value chain, including those beyond the first tier, and with any other entities directly linked to its operations, products,
or services. The following types of business relationships are prevalent in the agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing
sectors and are relevant when identifying the impacts of organizations in the sectors.
Aggregators: intermediary organizations or single actors who bring products from multiple sources at farm, fishery,
hatchery, or mill level for sale to downstream markets.
Animal or fish feed suppliers: organizations or persons that provide feed for animal production or aquaculture.
Primary producers: agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing organizations can often buy their products from primary
producers who actively farm or fish. Primary producers can be other organizations or persons, such as farmers and
fishers, categorized as self-employed workers.
Suppliers of agricultural inputs: organizations that produce and sell fertilizers, pesticides and other inputs, and
seeds.
3 Fishing products refer to wild aquatic organisms captured, such as fish, mollusks, and crustaceans.
12 GRI 13: Agriculture, Aquaculture and Fishing Sectors 2022
The sectors and sustainable development
Agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing are fundamental to feeding the world’s population. The sectors have a key role in
meeting the growing demand for nutritious, affordable, and safe food for an estimated 10 billion people by 2050 [30].
At the same time, these sectors’ activities are increasingly recognized as having significant impacts on sustainable
development. Intensive use of natural resources, the location of operations in rural areas, and large amounts of labor
involved into production globally are factors contributing to the scale of the sectors’ impacts.
The agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing sectors are the second largest source of employment worldwide [20].4 Over
2.5 billion people living in rural areas depend on them these sectors for jobs. At the same time, agriculture,
aquaculture, and fishing are sectors with the highest informality rates in employment contracts, commercial
transactions, and land tenure, posing challenges to upholding human rights. With 80% of the world’s poor living in
rural areas, ensuring sufficient income for rural workers remains an issue [37]. Improving incomes means
communities need better economic opportunities, access to technology, skills training, and a more equitable
distribution of value created by their labor. Growth in the sectors is proportionately more effective in raising the
incomes of the world’s poorest people in comparison to other sectors.
Agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing have a substantial environmental footprint. For example, agriculture accounts for
an estimated 70% of freshwater withdrawals globally and is a substantial source of greenhouse gas (GHG)
emissions, accounting for 22% of the total global emissions [25].5 Similarly, fishing is responsible for at least 1.2% of
global oil consumption [10].
Because agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing production rely on biodiversity, soils, and ecosystems, implementing
sustainable practices across the sectors is a fundamental condition for food security. However, the agriculture sector
is associated with 70% of losses in terrestrial biodiversity because of land conversion, deforestation, soil erosion,
and impacts of pesticides [21]. Fishing has resulted in significant impacts on global ocean biodiversity, with one-third
of fish stocks being overfished and about 60% fished at their maximum sustainable levels [24].
There has been ongoing growth in the global consumption of animal and aquaculture products. With approximately
340 million tons of meat, 88 million tons of dairy and 85 million tons of aquaculture products being produced
annually, animal health and welfare are fundamental to agriculture and aquaculture activities [20]. The conditions
animals live in have considerable implications for preventing zoonotic disease and the risks of antimicrobial
resistance. Sound animal health and welfare also mean the responsibility for treating animals humanely.
Climate change poses challenges for the agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing sectors. It can affect yields, disrupt
production and supply chains, jeopardizing food security. Impacts of climate change can also deepen poverty levels,
displace people from their lands, and thus increase migration. Agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing organizations can
contribute to food security and global development by building resilience to climate change, reducing food loss, and
providing income and livelihoods to farmers and fishers and their communities.
Sustainable Development Goals
The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), part of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development adopted by the
193 United Nations (UN) member states, comprise the world’s comprehensive plan of action for achieving
sustainable development [7].
Since the SDGs and the targets associated with them are integrated and indivisible, agriculture, aquaculture, and
fishing organizations have the potential to contribute to all SDGs by enhancing their positive impacts or by preventing
and mitigating their negative impacts on the economy, environment, and people.
The agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing sectors provide food for communities across the world and are best
positioned to contribute to Goal 2: Zero Hunger. The sectors are also the world’s biggest employers and the largest
economic sectors for many countries, directly impacting Goal 1: No Poverty and Goal 8: Decent Work and Economic
Growth.
By managing natural resources sustainably and efficiently (Goal 12: Responsible Consumption and Production),
agriculture has the potential to revitalize rural landscapes, contributing to Goal 15: Life on land. At the same time, the
aquaculture and fishing sectors can contribute to healthy marine and aquatic ecosystems, which is Goal 14: Life
Below Water. By implementing resilient fishing and farming practices, the agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing
sectors can help increase productivity and build the adaptive capacity to respond to climate change (Goal 13: Climate
Action).
4 This figure is based on the agriculture, forestry and fishing sector as defined in the International Standard Industrial Classification of All Economic
Activities (ISIC) which includes crop and animal production, hunting and related service activities, forestry and logging, fishing, and aquaculture [19].
5 This figure is based on the Agriculture, Forestry and Other Land Use (AFOLU) sector as defined in the International Panel for Climate Change reports
(IPCC). Land use change is the largest source of AFOLU emissions, followed by ruminant livestock production, followed by crop production [25].
13 GRI 13: Agriculture, Aquaculture and Fishing Sectors 2022
Table 2 presents connections between the likely material topics for the agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing sectors
and the SDGs. These linkages were identified based on an assessment of the impacts described in each likely
material topic, and the targets associated with each SDG.
Table 2 is not a reporting tool but presents connections between the agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing sectors’
significant impacts and the goals of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. See references [40] and [41] in
the Bibliography for information on reporting progress towards the SDGs using the GRI Standards.
Table 2: Linkages between the likely material topics for the agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing sectors and the
SDGs.
Topic 13.1 Emissions
Topic 13.2 Climate adaptation and
resilience
Topic 13.3 Biodiversity
Topic 13.4 Natural ecosystem
conversion
Topic 13.5 Soil health
Topic 13.6 Pesticides use
Topic 13.7 Water and effluents
Topic 13.8 Waste
Topic 13.9 Food security
Topic 13.10 Food safety
Topic 13.11 Animal health and welfare
Topic 13.12 Local communities
Topic 13.13 Land and resource rights
Topic 13.14 Rights of indigenous
peoples
Topic 13.15 Non-discrimination and
equal opportunity
Topic 13.16 Forced or compulsory
labor
Topic 13.17 Child labor
Topic 13.18 Freedom of association
and collective bargaining
Topic 13.19 Occupational health and
safety
Topic 13.20 Employment practices
Topic 13.21 Living income and living
wage
Topic 13.22 Economic inclusion
Topic 13.23 Supply chain traceability
Topic 13.24 Public policy
Topic 13.25 Anti-competitive behavior
Topic 13.26 Anti-corruption
2. Likely material topics
14 GRI 13: Agriculture, Aquaculture and Fishing Sectors 2022
2. Likely material topics
This section comprises the likely material topics for the agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing sectors. Each topic
describes the sectors’ most significant impacts related to the topic and lists disclosures that have been identified as
relevant for reporting on the topic by agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing organizations. The organization is required to
review each topic in this section and determine whether it is a material topic for the organization, and then to
determine what information to report for its material topics.
Topic 13.1 Emissions
This topic addresses emissions into the air, including greenhouse gas (GHG), ozone-depleting substances (ODS),
nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), and other significant air emissions regarded as pollutants. Emissions
can have negative impacts on air quality, ecosystems, and on human and animal health. GHG emissions are also
a major contributor to climate change.
Agriculture is responsible for a large portion of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. From 2007 to 2016, the sector
accounted for approximately 13% of carbon dioxide (CO ), 44% of methane (CH ), and 82% of nitrous oxide (N O)
2 4 2
emissions from human activities globally, which was 23% of the total net anthropogenic emissions of GHGs over this
period [46].
In agriculture and aquaculture, the highest share of total emissions is associated with land use change, including the
conversion of land from a natural ecosystem for use by the sectors [46] (see also topic 13.4 Natural ecosystem
conversion). Forests contribute to the reduction of CO by absorbing more carbon than they release, making them a
2
carbon sink. Clearing forests or grasslands results in large amounts of CO being released. Soils can also absorb
2
greenhouse gas emissions. Soil and pasture management practices can contribute to the capacity of soil to store
carbon or adversely accelerate the release of carbon from the soil into the atmosphere (see topic 13.5 Soil health).
Restoring and preserving carbon sinks, such as natural ecosystems and soils, plays an integral role in mitigating
climate change (see also topic 13.2 Climate adaptation and resilience).
Land management for crop production produces GHG emissions through soil cultivation, including tillage, crop
residue decomposition, and burning vegetation and crop residues. This results in the production of CO , NO, and
2 2
particulate matter. Fertilizers, pesticides, and fuels used to power machinery and vehicles also release GHG
emissions.
Ruminant livestock produce GHG emissions during respiration and digestion. Animal manure also emits gases,
such as CH , NO, and CO. Livestock on managed pastures and rangelands was estimated accounted for over half
4 2 2
of total anthropogenic N O emissions from agriculture [46]. CH and NO emissions have a higher global warming
2 4 2
potential than CO.
2
In animal production and aquaculture, emissions are also associated with animal and fish feed sourcing. These
emissions can be caused by natural ecosystem conversion and the feed's production, processing, and
transportation. In aquaculture land-based farms, emissions are also released from the combustion of fuel to
generate the energy needed to regulate water temperature and circulation.
Fishing activities produce emissions from burning fuels, such as diesel, marine fuel oils, and intermediate fuel oils.
These fuels provide the power to fishing vessels to access marine stocks and power onboard fish processing
facilities, including freezing or refrigerating fish. Fishing vessels are not necessarily optimized for fuel efficiency,
further contributing to emissions. The combustion of fuels also produces localized air pollution, while the use of
refrigerants to store fish products can result in the emission of ozone-depleting substances.
The goal of the Paris Agreement to limit global warming to well below 2°C requires organizations to set emissions
targets consistent with the cumulative carbon budgets that set a cap for the total allowed CO emissions [42].
2
Reducing emissions for the sectors includes measures that help mitigate the main sources of GHGs, for example,
measures to reduce methane (CH ) emitted by ruminants through better management of feed and manure, or in crop
4
production, using culture-specific production practices, such as growing rice using alternate wetting and drying
methods that reduce methane production.
15 GRI 13: Agriculture, Aquaculture and Fishing Sectors 2022
Reporting on emissions
If the organization has determined emissions to be a material topic, this sub-section lists the disclosures identified
as relevant for reporting on the topic by the agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing sectors.
STANDARD DISCLOSURE SECTOR
STANDARD
REF. NO.
Management of the topic
GRI 3: Material Disclosure 3-3 Management of material topics 13.1.1
Topics 2021
Topic Standard disclosures
GRI 305: Disclosure 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 13.1.2
Emissions 2016
Additional sector recommendations
• When reporting on gross direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions in metric tons of
CO2 equivalent, include land use change emissions.6
Disclosure 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 13.1.3
Disclosure 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 13.1.4
Additional sector recommendations
• When reporting on gross other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions in metric
tons of CO equivalent, include land use change emissions.
2
Disclosure 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 13.1.5
Disclosure 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 13.1.6
Disclosure 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) 13.1.7
Disclosure 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NO ), sulfur oxides (SO ), and other significant 13.1.8
X X
air emissions
References and resources
GRI 305: Emissions 2016 lists authoritative intergovernmental instruments and additional references relevant to
reporting on this topic.
The additional references used in developing this topic, as well as resources that may be helpful for reporting on
emissions by the agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing sectors are listed in the Bibliography.
6 Land use change occurs when land is converted from one land use category to another; for instance, when cropland is converted to grassland or when
forests are converted to cropland. This includes natural ecosystem conversion [48] (see also topic 13.4 Natural ecosystem conversion).
16 GRI 13: Agriculture, Aquaculture and Fishing Sectors 2022
Topic 13.2 Climate adaptation and resilience
Organizations contribute to climate change and are simultaneously affected by it. Climate adaptation and
resilience refer to how an organization adjusts to current and anticipated climate change-related risks, as well as
how it contributes to the ability of societies and economies to withstand impacts from climate change.
Major impacts of climate change include an increase in acute weather events and long-term shifts in climate patterns.
As a consequence, crop yields and biogeographic suitability have been negatively impacted in recent decades.
In agriculture, crops can be damaged and harvests lost due to increased volatility, intensity, and duration of weather-
related events. Warmer winters related to climate change affect fruits and vegetables that need a period of colder
weather to produce viable harvests. Land degradation exacerbated by global warming can also lead to increased
frequency and severity of flooding, drought, pest prevalence, diseases, heat stress, dry spells, wind, sea-level rise,
wave action, and permafrost thaw.
Aquaculture and fishing operations are likely to be affected by water temperature increases, oxygen deficit, sea-level
rise, decreased pH levels, and changes in productivity patterns. Higher ocean temperatures also means continued
losses of marine habitats and species. Aquaculture and inland fishing activities are also affected by changes in
precipitation and water management, increased stress on freshwater resources, and the frequency and intensity of
extreme climate events. In tropical and less developed regions, small-scale fishers are particularly vulnerable to
climate change-related impacts.
An organization’s failure to adapt to climate change-related impacts can lead to disruptions in operations, increased
occupational health and safety impacts, loss of livelihood, and food insecurity. These disruptions can affect an
organization's workers, suppliers, customers, as well as smallholder farmers, fishers, indigenous peoples, and local
communities. Disruptions in food production mean that between 34 and 600 million more people could suffer from
hunger by 2080, depending on how climate change-related scenarios unfold [53] (see also topic 13.9 Food security).
Organizations can respond to climate change impacts by adopting practices and technologies that build resilience.
For example, in agriculture, low or no-till farming can reduce soil erosion, leading to improved soil and water quality.
Another important adaptation strategy for the sectors is the diversification in production through a wider genetic base
with improvements in the tolerance of heat and drought. Mitigating food loss (see also topic 13.9 Food security) is
another measure that contributes to less land and natural resources needed to produce the same output, thereby
reducing GHG emissions.
Preserving indigenous and local knowledge of biodiversity can also be a contributing factor in enhancing climate
resilience. Indigenous and local knowledge often focuses on preserving ecosystems and offers adaptive strategies to
cope with unfavorable conditions in local areas.
17 GRI 13: Agriculture, Aquaculture and Fishing Sectors 2022
Reporting on climate adaptation and resilience
If the organization has determined climate adaptation and resilience to be a material topic, this sub-section lists the
disclosures identified as relevant for reporting on the topic by the agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing sectors.
STANDARD DISCLOSURE SECTOR
STANDARD
REF. NO.
Management of the topic
GRI 3: Material Disclosure 3-3 Management of material topics 13.2.1
Topics 2021
Topic Standard disclosures
GRI 201: Disclosure 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to 13.2.2
Economic climate change
Performance
Additional sector recommendations
2016
• Describe the climate change-related scenarios used for identifying the risks
and opportunities posed by climate change.
References and resources
GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016 lists authoritative intergovernmental instruments and additional references
relevant to reporting on this topic.
The additional references used in developing this topic, as well as resources that may be helpful for reporting on
climate adaptation and resilience by the agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing sectors are listed in the Bibliography.
18 GRI 13: Agriculture, Aquaculture and Fishing Sectors 2022
Topic 13.3 Biodiversity
Biodiversity is the variability among living organisms. It includes diversity within species, between species and of
ecosystems. Biodiversity not only has intrinsic value, but is also vital to human health, food security, economic
prosperity, and mitigation of climate change and adaptation to its impacts. This topic covers impacts on
biodiversity, including on plant and animal species, genetic diversity, and natural ecosystems.
Biodiversity is essential for food production and a wide range of ecosystem services. According to the International
Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN), biodiversity faces five major threats: habitat loss and degradation,
overexploitation of biological resources, pollution, climate change, and invasive species.
Agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing operations pose threats to biodiversity through air, soil, and water contamination,
deforestation, soil erosion, sedimentation of waterways, and species extraction. Biodiversity generally declines as
agriculture, aquaculture, or fishing activities intensify. This is largely driven by natural ecosystem conversion and
habitat change (see also topic 13.4 Natural ecosystem conversion). Biodiversity impacts result in increased mortality
rates of species, habitat fragmentation, and can lead to species loss or extinction.
Biodiversity can be adversely impacted by monoculture. Growing the same crops or rearing the same animal species
year after year may increase production but it also decreases agrobiodiversity on farms and plantations and can
compromise biodiversity in adjacent environments. In crop production, continuous monocropping can result in a
buildup of pests and diseases, usually requiring higher volumes of pesticides, which can be toxic to many non-target
species, including pollinators. About 40% of invertebrate pollinator species, particularly bees and butterflies, face
extinction [71].
Animal production can be a major source of surplus nitrogen and phosphorous pollution, leading to eutrophication in
adjacent lakes and rivers, rendering them uninhabitable for aquatic organisms (see also topic 13.7 Water and
effluents). Aquaculture activities have similar impacts due to a buildup of fish excrement in waterbodies. These
impacts can adversely affect the availability of fishery resources and food for local communities.
Aquaculture can also result in impacts on local biodiversity through escapes from aquaculture farms, which in turn
can compete with the area’s native species. Poor feeding practices can result in excess or insufficient feed for fish,
adding to disease outbreaks and aquatic pollution. The presence of extra feed can attract wild fish and predators to
the water column.
Fishing is one of the most significant drivers of declining ocean biodiversity. This is largely due to overfishing, by-
catch, and illegal, unreported, and unregulated fishing (IUU). From 1974 to 2017, the proportion of the world’s fish
stocks classified as overfished increased to 34.2%, with only about two-thirds of global fish stocks deemed as
biologically sustainable (see references [65] and [68]).
Overfishing leads to impacts on the biodiversity of marine ecosystems by altering the composition of species. These
alterations result in impacts on predator-prey relationships and cause shifts in trophic structures. Overfishing can be
harder to prevent in international waters, where efforts to manage stock sustainably are further complicated when fish
move across country borders.
Fishmeal and fish oil are rich in protein and are typically used as fish and animal feed ingredients. Fishing products
used for feed can be derived from forage fish or fishing by-products, including trimmings and offcuts. Overfishing
forage fish stocks used for feed increases pressure on the wild trophic structures. In aquaculture, further pressure on
fish stocks can also be driven by using juvenile seeds captured in the wild.
Certain fishing practices, for example, bottom trawling in areas of high biodiversity value, can damage the seabed’s
physical structure, affecting bottom plants, corals, sponges, fish, and other aquatic animals. This practice can
profoundly change how natural benthic ecosystems function or lead to their destruction. Seabed damage can also
result in carbon dioxide (CO) emissions.
2
A phenomenon known as ‘ghost fishing’ can threaten both target and non-target species, potentially killing
endangered and protected species and damaging underwater habitats. This phenomenon occurs when fishing gear
is lost or discarded and can continue to trap species indiscriminately. Lost or discarded fishing gear also contributes
to marine plastic pollution (see also topic 13.8 Waste).
About 80% of terrestrial biodiversity is found in indigenous peoples’ lands and forests [76]; respecting indigenous
peoples’ rights to land and natural resources can also make a profound contribution to biodiversity conservation (see
topic 13.14 Rights of indigenous peoples and topic 13.13 Land and resource rights).
19 GRI 13: Agriculture, Aquaculture and Fishing Sectors 2022
Reporting on biodiversity
If the organization has determined biodiversity to be a material topic, this sub-section lists the disclosures identified
as relevant for reporting on the topic by the agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing sectors.
STANDARD DISCLOSURE SECTOR
STANDARD
REF. NO.
Management of the topic
GRI 3: Material Disclosure 3-3 Management of material topics 13.3.1
Topics 2021
Additional sector recommendations
The following additional sector recommendation is for organizations in the
aquaculture sector:
• Describe the approach to preventing and managing escapes of farmed aquatic
organisms.
Topic Standard disclosures
GRI 304: Disclosure 304-1 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, 13.3.2
Biodiversity 2016 protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas
Disclosure 304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products and services on 13.3.3
biodiversity
Disclosure 304-3 Habitats protected or restored 13.3.4
Disclosure 304-4 IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species 13.3.5
with habitats in areas affected by operations
Additional sector disclosures
The following additional sector disclosures are for organizations in the aquaculture sector: 13.3.6
• For each species of aquatic organisms produced, report:
- species scientific name;
- volume in metric tons;
- farming methods;
- production site.
• For juvenile seeds stocks captured in the wild that are used as input to aquaculture production,
report:
- species scientific name;
- volume in metric tons;
- fishing methods;
- locations of origin;
- stock status, including the stock status assessments or systems used.7
• Report the use of fishing products in feed, including the following:
- species scientific name;
- whether the whole fish or fish waste (trimmings, offcuts, and offal) is used;
- locations of origin;
- stock status, including the stock status assessments or systems used.
The following additional sector disclosure is for organizations in the fishing sector: 13.3.7
• For each species of aquatic organisms caught or harvested, including non-target species, report:
- species scientific name;
- volume in metric tons;
- fishing methods;
- locations of origin;
- stock status, including the stock status assessments or systems used.8
20 GRI 13: Agriculture, Aquaculture and Fishing Sectors 2022
References and resources
GRI 304: Biodiversity 2016 lists authoritative intergovernmental instruments and additional references relevant to
reporting on this topic.
The additional authoritative instruments and references used in developing this topic, as well as resources that may
be helpful for reporting on biodiversity by the agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing sectors are listed in the
Bibliography.
7 The organization can use any stock status assessments or systems that are relevant to the location of origin and species.
8 The organization can use any stock status assessments or systems that are relevant to the location of origin and species.
21 GRI 13: Agriculture, Aquaculture and Fishing Sectors 2022
Topic 13.4 Natural ecosystem conversion
Natural ecosystem conversion refers to changing a natural ecosystem to another use or a profound change in a
natural ecosystem’s species composition, structure, or function. This topic covers impacts related to natural
ecosystem conversion, including discrete incidents of land clearance, severe degradation, or the introduction of
practices that lead to substantial and sustained change in natural ecosystems.
Natural ecosystems offer important services, including absorbing and storing vast quantities of carbon dioxide (CO).
2
When natural ecosystems are converted to other uses, stored carbon can be released into the atmosphere,
contributing to greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and climate change. Estimates show that the loss of primary
tropical forests in 2019 resulted in the release of more than 2 billion tons of CO [86] (see topic 13.1 Emissions and
2
topic 13.2 Climate adaptation and resilience). Conversion of natural ecosystems can also lead to other environmental
impacts, such as loss of biodiversity (see also topic 13.3 Biodiversity), acceleration of soil erosion (see also topic
13.5 Soil health), and increased runoff and water pollution (see also topic 13.7 Water and effluents).
In agriculture and aquaculture sectors, natural ecosystem conversion can occur through the use of land and aquatic
environments for animal breeding, grazing, crop production, aquaculture production, and ancillary activities. This can
occur rapidly, with a significant change taking place in a short time, or gradually, with incremental changes over a long
time.
Terrestrial ecosystem conversion can include the conversion of forests through deforestation and the conversion of
other ecosystems, such as grasslands, woodlands, or savannas. Deforestation occurs when primary and secondary
forests are cleared, often by burning. Deforestation in tropical rainforests can have a particularly severe impact
because they are habitat to much of the world's biodiversity.
Aquaculture operations can result in clearing mangroves, salt marshes, and wetlands or produce sustained changes
to the coastal, lake, and river ecosystems to make them fit for aquatic farming sites. Aquaculture also relies heavily on
crops, such as soy, for fish feed which can contribute to the conversion of terrestrial ecosystems. Feed ingredients
need to be traceable to identify and prevent the potential negative impacts associated with conversion (see topic
13.23 Supply chain traceability).
The rate of deforestation and conversion in the agriculture sector has been increasing to give way to plantations and
pastures [91]. Deforestation and conversion occur in the supply chains of beef, soy, palm oil, cocoa, coffee, rubber,
and other products. To be deemed deforestation- and conversion-free, products must be assessed as not causing or
contributing to natural ecosystem conversion after an appropriate cut-off date.9
People can be displaced due to physical changes to the landscapes surrounding their communities or degradation
or depletion of natural resources or ecosystem services that the community relies on (see also topic 13.12 Local
communities and topic 13.13 Land and resource rights). Loss of natural ecosystems and resources can also cause
food insecurity. For indigenous peoples, natural ecosystem conversion can result in the loss of cultural and spiritual
heritage and livelihoods and impact the rights to self-determination and self-governance (see also topic 13.14 Rights
of indigenous peoples).
9 A cut-off date is defined by the Accountability Framework as ‘the date after which deforestation or conversion renders a given area or production unit
non-compliant with no-deforestation or no-conversion commitments, respectively’ [92].
22 GRI 13: Agriculture, Aquaculture and Fishing Sectors 2022
Reporting on natural ecosystem conversion
If the organization has determined natural ecosystem conversion to be a material topic, this sub-section lists the
disclosures identified as relevant for reporting on the topic by the agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing sectors.
STANDARD DISCLOSURE SECTOR
STANDARD
REF. NO.
Management of the topic
GRI 3: Material Disclosure 3-3 Management of material topics 13.4.1
Topics 2021
Additional sector recommendations
• Describe policies or commitments to reduce or eliminate natural ecosystem
conversion, including target10 and cut-off11 dates, for the following:
- the organization’s own production;
- sourcing of terrestrial animal and fish feed;
- products sourced by the organization for aggregation, processing, or trade.
• Describe how the organization ensures that its suppliers comply with its
natural ecosystem conversion policies and commitments, including through
sourcing policies and contracts.
• Report the organization’s participation in multi-stakeholder, landscape,12 or
sectoral initiatives intended to reduce or eliminate natural ecosystem
conversion.
• Describe the tools and systems used to monitor natural ecosystem conversion
in the organization’s activities, supply chain, and sourcing locations.
Additional sector disclosures
Report the percentage of production volume from land owned, leased or managed by the organization 13.4.2
determined to be deforestation- or conversion-free, by product, and describe the assessment
methods used.13
• For products sourced by the organization, report the following by product: 13.4.3
- the percentage of sourced volume determined to be deforestation- or conversion-free, and
describe the assessment methods used;
- the percentage of sourced volume for which origins are not known to the point where it can be
determined whether it is deforestation- or conversion-free, and describe actions taken to
improve traceability.
Report the size in hectares, the location, and the type14 of natural ecosystems converted since the cut- 13.4.4
off date on land owned, leased, or managed by the organization.
Report the size in hectares, the location, and the type of natural ecosystems converted since the cut-off 13.4.5
date by suppliers or in sourcing locations.
References and resources
The authoritative instruments and references used in developing this topic, as well as resources that may be helpful
for reporting on natural ecosystem conversion by the agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing sectors are listed in the
Bibliography.
10 A target date is defined by the Accountability Framework as ‘the date by which [the organization] intends to have fully implemented its commitment
or policy’ [92].
11 Cut-off dates may differ between commodities and regions. Appropriate cut-off dates can be selected based on sector-wide or regional cut-off dates,
or those specified in certification programs, legislation, or be based on the availability of monitoring data. More guidance on identifying appropriate
cut-off dates can be found in Accountability Framework Operational Guidance on Cut-off Dates [93].
12 Landscapes refer to natural and/or human-modified ecosystems, often with a characteristic configuration of topography, vegetation, land use, and
settlements. Landscape initiatives refer to how organizations in the production and sourcing of agricultural products need to work beyond their own
supply chains to address sustainability issues and support positive outcomes for the people and sourcing locations. These definitions are based on
Food and Agriculture Organization, Landscape approaches: key concepts [84] and Proforest, Landscape initiatives [88].
14 Natural ecosystem type can be characterized by biome, vegetation type, or high conservation value status relevant to the region and regulatory
context.
23 GRI 13: Agriculture, Aquaculture and Fishing Sectors 2022
Topic 13.5 Soil health
Soil health is the capacity of soil to function as a living ecosystem and to sustain plant and animal productivity,
promote plant and animal health, and maintain or enhance water and air quality. This topic covers impacts on soil
health, including soil erosion, soil loss, and reduction in soil fertility.
Recent estimates suggest that 80% of agricultural land is affected by moderate to severe erosion [97]. Although soil
erosion occurs naturally, agricultural activities can significantly accelerate this process by removing vegetation cover,
tillage, soil compaction, irrigation, and overgrazing by livestock.
In agriculture, original vegetation cover is removed to make land available for crop production or animal grazing.
Agricultural crops rarely hold onto the topsoil as well as the original vegetation cover, increasing soil erosion and
potentially reducing soil fertility. Estimates show that half of the topsoil globally has been lost in the past 150 years
[102]. Grazing livestock can also cause impacts on soil structure through excessive defoliation, defecation, and
trampling.
Soil erosion can also be accelerated by tillage. Soil erosion in agricultural fields exceeds soil formation at rates
estimated between 10 to 20 times higher when there is no tillage and over 100 times higher when conventional tillage
is used [101]. The increased erosion is because conventional tillage inverts and breaks up the soil, destroys the soil
structure, and buries crop residues. Tilled soils have less capacity to support loads applied to the ground and are
consequently more sensitive to compaction caused by agricultural machinery, which can lead to impacts on soil
biodiversity. Minimum till or no-till methods, which reduce tillage area and tillage depth, crop protection, and other soil
management practices, can help to reduce soil erosion.
Fertilizers, both organic and inorganic, as well as pesticides, have an impact on soil health (see also topic 13.6
Pesticides use). Excessive use of inorganic fertilizers can increase soil acidity levels and alter soil fertility. Pesticides
can affect soil communities by influencing the performance of soil biota or modifying it. This can compromise the
abundance and composition of the entire soil food web.
The main ingredients of fertilizers commonly used in agriculture are nitrogen, phosphorus, and potassium. The
presence of phosphorus in agricultural runoff can accelerate eutrophication. Alterations to the global nitrogen cycle
can lead to the rise of nitrous oxide levels in the atmosphere. Excessive use of nitrogen fertilizers in agriculture has
been a major source of nitrate pollution in groundwater and surface water affecting access to clean water for local
communities.
13 Assessment methods can include monitoring, certification, sourcing from low-risk jurisdictions with no or negligible recent conversion, or sourcing
from verified suppliers.
24 GRI 13: Agriculture, Aquaculture and Fishing Sectors 2022
Reporting on soil health
If the organization has determined soil health to be a material topic, this sub-section lists the disclosures identified as
relevant for reporting on the topic by the agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing sectors.
STANDARD DISCLOSURE SECTOR
STANDARD
REF. NO.
Management of the topic
GRI 3: Material Disclosure 3-3 Management of material topics 13.5.1
Topics 2021
Additional sector recommendations
• Describe the soil management plan, including:
- a link to this plan if publicly available;
- the main threats to soil health identified and a description of the soil
management practices used;
- the approach to input optimization, including the use of fertilizers.
References and resources
The authoritative instruments and references used in developing this topic, as well as resources that may be helpful
for reporting on soil health by the agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing sectors are listed in the Bibliography.
25 GRI 13: Agriculture, Aquaculture and Fishing Sectors 2022
Topic 13.6 Pesticides use
Pesticides are chemical or biological substances intended to regulate plant growth or control, repel, or destroy
any pest. This topic covers an organization’s approach and impacts related to pesticides use, including the
impact of their toxicity on non-target organisms.
Pesticides include herbicides, insecticides, fungicides, nematicides, and rodenticides and can be used in crop
production to control weeds and other pests.15 Pesticides can decrease the spread of diseases and pests, increase
production yields, and potentially limit the need to convert more land.
Conversely, if not handled properly pesticides can induce adverse health effects in humans by interfering with
reproduction, immune, and nervous systems. Pesticides can also have negative impacts on biodiversity because of
their toxicological effects. For example, pesticides that target insects or weeds can be toxic to birds, fish, and non-
target plants and insects. These impacts can threaten ecosystem services, such as pollination, and adversely impact
food security and people’s livelihoods (see also topic 13.3 Biodiversity).
Each pesticide has different properties and toxicological effects. The World Health Organization (WHO) classifies the
toxicity hazard levels for pesticides as either extremely hazardous, highly hazardous, moderately hazardous, slightly
hazardous, or unlikely to present an acute hazard. Toxicity depends on the pesticide’s function and other factors, such
as its use and disposal. The regulation of pesticides is not always consistent across the world. Some pesticides,
usually those classified as extremely and highly hazardous, are unregistered or banned in some countries but may
remain available in others.
Workers and other people in the immediate area have the potential to be most affected during or right after pesticides
are applied. Pesticides can also stay in soil and water for years and have long-term negative impacts on local
communities and the local environment (see also topic 13.8 Waste). Women and children can be particularly
vulnerable to negative health effects caused by exposure to pesticides (see topic 13.12 Local communities and also
topic 13.19 Occupational health and safety). Exposure to pesticide residue is also possible through food and water
(see also topic 13.7 Water and effluents and topic 13.10 Food safety).
The Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) estimates that in developing countries, 80% of the increase in food
production needed to keep pace with population growth is projected to come from greater crop yields. This could
trigger a further intensification of pesticide use to generate higher yields. The intensive use of pesticides sometimes
leads to resistance and outbreaks of secondary pests.
Integrated pest management in agriculture seeking to optimize pest control and mitigate negative impacts is a widely
recognized approach that considers biological, chemical, physical, and crop-specific pest control practices. When
pest control through the application of chemicals cannot be avoided, organizations are expected to manage pesticide
use to minimize negative impacts and the application of extremely and highly hazardous pesticides [105].
15 Pest is defined by the Food and Agriculture Organization and the World Health Organization as any species, strain or biotype of plant, animal or
pathogenic agent injurious to plants and plant products, materials or environments and includes vectors of parasites or pathogens of human and
animal disease and animals causing public health nuisance [97].
26 GRI 13: Agriculture, Aquaculture and Fishing Sectors 2022
Reporting on pesticides use
If the organization has determined pesticides use to be a material topic, this sub-section lists the disclosures
identified as relevant for reporting on the topic by the agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing sectors.
STANDARD DISCLOSURE SECTOR
STANDARD
REF. NO.
Management of the topic
GRI 3: Material Disclosure 3-3 Management of material topics 13.6.1
Topics 2021
Additional sector recommendations
• Describe the pest management plan of the organization, including the
rationale for the selection and application of pesticides and any other practices
of pest control.
• Describe actions taken to prevent, mitigate and/or remediate negative impacts
associated with the use of extremely and highly hazardous pesticides.
• Describe the actions, initiatives, or plans to switch to less hazardous
pesticides and actions taken to optimize pest control practices.
• Describe the training provided to workers on pest management and the
application of pesticides.
Additional sector disclosures
• Report the volume and intensity of pesticides used by the following toxicity hazard levels:16 13.6.2
- Extremely hazardous;
- Highly hazardous;
- Moderately hazardous;
- Slightly hazardous;
- Unlikely to present an acute hazard.
References and resources
The authoritative instruments and references used in developing this topic, as well as resources that may be helpful
for reporting on pesticides use by the agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing sectors are listed in the Bibliography.
16 The criteria for toxicity hazard levels and a list of pesticides classified by hazard level can be found in the World Health Organization Recommended
Classification of Pesticides by Hazard [116].
27 GRI 13: Agriculture, Aquaculture and Fishing Sectors 2022
Topic 13.7 Water and effluents
Recognized as a human right, access to fresh water is essential for human life and well-being. The amount of
water withdrawn and consumed by an organization and the quality of its discharges can have impacts on
ecosystems and people. This topic covers impacts related to the withdrawal and consumption of water and the
quality of water discharged.
Water is a critical input for crop and animal production, as well as aquaculture. The agriculture sector accounts for an
estimated 70% of total water withdrawn globally [120]. In crop production, withdrawn water is primarily used to irrigate
land, apply pesticides and fertilizers, and control crop cooling and frost.
Water has critical importance to agricultural productivity. On average, irrigated land is twice as productive per unit as
non-irrigated land. Irrigation can be achieved through different methods, including surface irrigation or subsurface
irrigation. Water can be withdrawn from groundwater or surface water, such as lakes and reservoirs, or come in the
form of treated wastewater or desalinated water. Intensive water withdrawal can decrease aquifer levels, which
reduces the long-term sustainability of water resources and increases access costs for all users (see also topic
13.12 Local communities).
In animal production, water is used for animal hydration and cleaning. It is also used for the washing and sanitization
of milking and slaughter equipment used to process animal products. Effluents containing waste from terrestrial
animals, fertilizers, and pesticides can contribute to the pollution of surface and groundwater.
Aquaculture water use is associated with raising aquatic organisms in water and can require significant amount of
surface water. Aquaculture production occurs in ponds, artificial channels, and, to a lesser extent, closed-recirculation
tanks. Because aquaculture operations take place in controlled environments, much of the water withdrawn can be
returned to the source after use.
Nutrient buildup from discharges in water bodies near fish farms is a typical water impact from aquaculture
production. This issue is exacerbated in high-density farms when fish feces discharged into water potentially deplete
oxygen levels and create algal blooms that lead to eutrophication. The eutrophication and acidification of water results
in negative impacts on biodiversity. Water quality affects habitat and food sources for animals. Contaminated water
can also adversely affect people’s access to clean water, compromising their health and livelihoods.
In fishing operations, wastewater can be discharged to the sea from fishing vessels. This includes water used to
store fish aboard the vessel, which can contain fish waste from gutting and bleeding, as well as materials and
coating from the hold and onboard refrigeration systems. Wastewater could also come from cleaning holds and
machinery containing detergents, disinfectants and oily mixtures. Discharges can cause oxygen depletion in sea
water and pollution in coastal areas.17
17 The International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships (MARPOL) contains provisions on discharges of wastewater from vessels
[117].
28 GRI 13: Agriculture, Aquaculture and Fishing Sectors 2022
Reporting on water and effluents
If the organization has determined water and effluents to be a material topic, this sub-section lists the disclosures
identified as relevant for reporting on the topic by the agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing sectors.
STANDARD DISCLOSURE SECTOR
STANDARD
REF. NO.
Management of the topic
GRI 3: Material Disclosure 3-3 Management of material topics 13.7.1
Topics 2021
Topic Standard disclosures
GRI 303: Water Disclosure 303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource 13.7.2
and Effluents
Disclosure 303-2 Management of water discharge-related impacts 13.7.3
2018
Disclosure 303-3 Water withdrawal 13.7.4
Disclosure 303-4 Water discharge 13.7.5
Disclosure 303-5 Water consumption 13.7.6
References and resources
GRI 303: Water and Effluents 2018 lists authoritative intergovernmental instruments and additional references
relevant to reporting on this topic.
The additional references used in developing this topic, as well as resources that may be helpful for reporting on
water and effluent by the agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing sectors are listed in the Bibliography.
29 GRI 13: Agriculture, Aquaculture and Fishing Sectors 2022
Topic 13.8 Waste
Waste refers to anything that a holder discards, intends to discard, or is required to discard. When inadequately
managed, waste can have negative impacts on the environment and human health, which can extend beyond the
locations where waste is generated and discarded. This topic covers impacts from waste and the management
of waste.
Waste from organizations in the agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing sectors includes organic waste, such as crop
waste, animal manure, fish feces, animal carcasses; and inorganic waste, such as plastics. It can also include
hazardous waste, such as pesticides containers, and materials from animal health products.
Some organic by-products have the potential to be used as a biomass energy source, feed or fertilizers, contributing
to circularity measures. For example, trimmings and offcuts from aquaculture and fishing operations can be turned
into fishmeal and oil, while manure produced by animals is an organic fertilizer that can improve soil health. However,
if incinerated without energy recovery or directed to landfills, by-products turn into waste and cause negative
environmental impacts, including greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and water pollution (see also topic 13.1
Emissions, topic 13.7 Water and effluents). In addition, organic waste from terrestrial and aquatic animals may
contain microorganisms and parasite eggs. These pathogens can spread in receiving environments and cause ill
health in humans.
In aquaculture operations, fish feed and feces can settle at the bottom of ponds or in inactive zones of raceways as
liquid or solid organic waste. Fish feces may also reach and pollute waterbodies. Pollution and waste impacts from
fish feces and settleable solids can be minimized through water management (see also topic 13.7 Water and
effluents).
Aquaculture activities generate considerable amounts of plastic waste. Plastics are widely used for equipment,
disposable gloves, and for packaging various inputs, such as feed sacks and wrapped consumables. Plastic can
also be used in pond liners, harvest nets, pipework, buoys, ropes, incubation jars, and containers. In fishing, various
marine tools, such as floats, fishing nets and lines, strapping bands, wire ropes, and sails, also consist of plastics.
Discarded or abandoned plastic waste can contaminate the surrounding environments and enter the ocean and other
waterbodies. Abandoned, lost, or otherwise discarded fishing gear contributes to waste and overfishing (see also
topic 13.3 Biodiversity). Fish and aquatic animals sometimes mistake plastic waste for food and get trapped in items
such as ropes, nets, and bags. The management of waste generated onboard fishing vessels, including plastics,
paper products, food waste, and chemicals, is regulated by international maritime standards (see references [125],
[126] and [127]).
Incorrectly disposed waste from agriculture, aquaculture and fishing activities can have lasting impacts on receiving
environments, causing long-term contamination of soil and water. Contamination of agricultural land and natural
resources causes negative impacts on the health and safety of local communities and can impact the safety of food
produced (see also topic 13.10 Food safety, topic 13.12 Local communities, and topic 13.14 Rights of indigenous
peoples).
30 GRI 13: Agriculture, Aquaculture and Fishing Sectors 2022
Reporting on waste
If the organization has determined waste to be a material topic, this sub-section lists the disclosures identified as
relevant for reporting on the topic by the agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing sectors.
STANDARD DISCLOSURE SECTOR
STANDARD
REF. NO.
Management of the topic
GRI 3: Material Disclosure 3-3 Management of material topics 13.8.1
Topics 2021
Topic Standard disclosures
GRI 306: Waste Disclosure 306-1 Waste generation and significant waste-related impacts 13.8.2
2020
Disclosure 306-2 Management of significant waste-related impacts 13.8.3
Disclosure 306-3 Waste generated 13.8.4
Additional sector recommendations
The following additional sector recommendations are for organizations in the
fishing sector:
• Report a breakdown of the total weight of waste generated on vessels to which
the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships
(MARPOL) is applicable by MARPOL categories in metric tons.18
• Describe the recovery and disposal operations used to manage each MARPOL
category of waste.
Disclosure 306-4 Waste diverted from disposal 13.8.5
Disclosure 306-5 Waste directed to disposal 13.8.6
References and resources
GRI 306: Waste 2020 lists authoritative intergovernmental instruments and additional references relevant to reporting
on this topic.
The additional references used in developing this topic, as well as resources that may be helpful for reporting on
waste by the agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing sectors are listed in the Bibliography.
18 A list of ‘garbage types’ or categories can be found in MARPOL Annex V [127]. Further information on these categories can be found in the 2017
Guidelines for the Implementation of MARPOL Annex V [125].
31 GRI 13: Agriculture, Aquaculture and Fishing Sectors 2022
Topic 13.9 Food security
Food security means that people have physical and economic access to sufficient, safe, and nutritious food that
is acceptable within a given culture and meets people’s dietary needs and food preferences for an active and
healthy life. Adequate food is a human right and is crucial to the enjoyment of all rights. This topic covers impacts
on the dimensions of food security.19
Food insecurity is a prevalent global issue. In 2018, more than 820 million people faced hunger, and as populations
grow, global food needs will increase [147]. Many people cannot afford food or are forced to consume insufficient or
low-quality food. Since 2014, undernourishment and food insecurity have consistently increased, putting global goals
to end hunger at risk [146].
Agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing organizations have impacts on food supply and affordability. Quantity, quality, and
accessibility of food also depend on farming and fishing practices.
Globally, land used for agriculture is estimated at 38% of the total land surface [142]. Some regions are already
constrained, limiting further land use expansion for food production (see also topic 13.4 Natural ecosystem
conversion). Almost half of the world’s calorie supply is derived from essential crops, such as maize, rice, and wheat.
Competing demands for land, cultivation costs, and low margins may affect the supply and affordability of these
crops. Climate change and adverse weather events can also cause impacts on yields, potentially increasing food
losses (see also topic 13.2 Climate adaptation and resilience).
Box 1. Food loss
In agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing, products originally intended as food for human consumption that end up as
waste are categorized as food loss. The Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) estimates that 13.8% of food,
from harvest to retail, was lost globally in 2016 [145].
Inefficiencies can cause food loss at different stages of the supply chain. At the farm level, they can be due to
inadequate harvesting time, climatic conditions, handling practices, post-harvest activities, and challenges related
to selling products. Food loss is accompanied by the loss of resources – including water, land, energy, labor, and
capital – and contributes to greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions.
Measures to prevent food loss include adequate storage temperatures and conditions, sound infrastructure, and
efficient transportation. Primary processing conditions and packaging can play a role in preserving agriculture,
aquaculture, and fishing products.
Achieving food security is likely to involve trade-offs in terms of how land and products are used. For example, utilizing
human-edible products for other uses means they are not available as food.
Intensive crop and animal production can result in increased availability of food. However, intensive production can
also be associated with negative impacts on the environment and yields in the longer-term. Many agricultural
practices deplete soil nutrients more quickly than can be formed, undermining the sustainability dimension of food
security (see also topic 13.5 Soil health). Regenerative and organic practices, such as rotating crops or planting at
optimal times, are considered to have the potential to contribute to greater soil health and productivity, and resilience
of food production.
19 Food security has multiple dimensions: food availability, access, use, stability, and sustainability. An additional dimension of agency is understood
as the capacity of individuals or groups to make decisions about the food they eat and how that food is produced [151].
32 GRI 13: Agriculture, Aquaculture and Fishing Sectors 2022
Reporting on food security
If the organization has determined food security to be a material topic, this sub-section lists the disclosures identified
as relevant for reporting on the topic by the agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing sectors.
STANDARD DISCLOSURE SECTOR
STANDARD
REF. NO.
Management of the topic
GRI 3: Material Disclosure 3-3 Management of material topics 13.9.1
Topics 2021
Additional sector recommendations
• Describe the effectiveness of actions and programs on food security at local,
regional, national, or global levels.
• Report partnerships which the organization is part of that address food
security, including engagement with governments.
• Describe policies or commitments to address food loss in the supply chain.
Additional sector disclosures
Report the total weight of food loss in metric tons and the food loss percentage, by the organization’s 13.9.2
main products or product category, and describe the methodology used for this calculation.20
References and resources
The authoritative instruments and references used in developing this topic, as well as resources that may be helpful
for reporting on food security by the agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing sectors are listed in the Bibliography.
20 Guidance on calculating the food loss percentage can be found in the Food Loss and Waste Accounting and Reporting Standard [158] and the SDG
12.3.1: Global Food Loss Index [157].
33 GRI 13: Agriculture, Aquaculture and Fishing Sectors 2022
Topic 13.10 Food safety
Food safety concerns the handling of food and feed products in a way that prevents food contamination and food-
borne illness. This topic addresses an organization’s efforts to prevent contamination and ensure food safety.
According to the World Health Organization (WHO), an estimated 600 million people worldwide fall ill after eating
contaminated food each year, resulting in about 420,000 deaths annually [163]. Besides threatening public health and
well-being, food safety can affect local communities, which in turn may lead to the loss of economic activity on local
and global scales (see also topic 13.12 Local communities).
Environmental contamination is a key driver of food safety impacts. The main sources of contamination from
agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing activities include the pollution of water, soil, or air used by crops or animals.
Contamination can also be caused by the inadequate management of crops or animals during their growth, harvest,
catch, or products’ primary processing, transportation, and storage.
Harmful bacteria, such as salmonella, listeriosis, or campylobacter, viruses and parasites can contaminate food and
cause ill health in humans. Similarly, food contamination can result from antimicrobials and pesticides residues,
heavy metals, and microplastics (see also topic 13.6 Pesticides use and 13.11 Animal health and welfare).
Globally, antimicrobials, such as chemical substances and antibiotics, are widely used in terrestrial and aquatic
animal production. High volumes of antimicrobials can contribute to the development of antimicrobial-resistant
bacteria, particularly in intensive animal production settings. The WHO identifies antimicrobial resistance as one of
the biggest threats to global health and human development [162]. Addressing antimicrobial resistance requires
adequate animal health and welfare standards, including the prudent use of antibiotics for animals.
Because food and feed products from one world region can supply another region, impacts on food safety can evolve
from local into global issues, such as outbreaks of foodborne illnesses spread beyond country borders. To allow for
recalls over food safety issues, products need to be traceable through the supply chain (see topic 13.23 Supply chain
traceability).
34 GRI 13: Agriculture, Aquaculture and Fishing Sectors 2022
Reporting on food safety
If the organization has determined food safety to be a material topic, this sub-section lists the disclosures identified
as relevant for reporting on the topic by the agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing sectors.
STANDARD DISCLOSURE SECTOR
STANDARD
REF. NO.
Management of the topic
GRI 3: Material Disclosure 3-3 Management of material topics 13.10.1
Topics 2021
Topic Standard disclosures
GRI 416: Disclosure 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and 13.10.2
Customer Health service categories
and Safety 2016
Disclosure 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety 13.10.3
impacts of products and services
Additional sector disclosures
Report the percentage of production volume21 from sites certified to internationally recognized food 13.10.4
safety standards, and list these standards.22
Report the number of recalls issued for food safety reasons and the total volume of products recalled. 13.10.5
References and resources
GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety 2016 lists authoritative intergovernmental instruments and additional
references relevant to reporting on this topic.
The additional references used in developing this topic, as well as resources that may be helpful for reporting on food
safety by the agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing sectors are listed in the Bibliography.
21 Production volume refers to the total volume of products of the organization, including products sourced by the organization from suppliers.
22 This disclosure covers certification programs, assurance schemes, or verification schemes which provide a written assurance that a product is in
conformity with certain requirements.
35 GRI 13: Agriculture, Aquaculture and Fishing Sectors 2022
Topic 13.11 Animal health and welfare
Animal health and welfare refers to an animal's physical and mental state in relation to the conditions in which it
lives and dies. The ‘Five Freedoms’ of animal welfare are freedom from hunger and thirst; freedom from
discomfort; freedom from pain, injury, and disease; freedom to express normal behavior; and freedom from fear
and distress. This topic covers impacts on animal health and the five freedoms of animal welfare.
Globally, over 60 billion terrestrial animals are reared each year, a figure set to double by 2050 due to increases in
animal protein consumption. Aquaculture farms produce 52 million tons of aquatic animals, representing half of all
seafood consumed by humans worldwide [171]. Animal health and welfare is crucial because it concerns productivity,
the safety of animal-derived products, and the humane treatment of animals.
Animal health management focuses on controlling potential impacts on health and preventing disease. This can
include the use of antibiotics, anti-inflammatory, and hormone treatments. Overuse or misuse of antibiotics can
contribute to antimicrobial resistance. Undesired residues of chemical substances in animal products can negatively
impact food safety, creating public health risks (see topic 13.10 Food safety). Inadequate animal health and welfare
practices can also increase the spread of zoonotic diseases, such as salmonellosis, swine flu, and bird flu, which
can occur through the movement and trade of terrestrial and aquatic animals and animal products without proper
biosecurity controls.
The conditions that animals are kept in can cause negative impacts on animal health and welfare. For example,
terrestrial animals can be confined to small spaces, cages, or crates, preventing their movement and inhibiting
normal behavior. Highly confined spaces can also lead animals to be left untreated for disease or injuries.
On-farm husbandry practices such as dehorning, hot-iron branding, castration, tail docking, and debeaking are
associated with pain and distress. Similarly, slaughter practices can be a major source of suffering and fear.
Therefore, many countries require pre-slaughter stunning to render an animal unconscious.
In aquaculture and fishing, commonly used slaughter methods include asphyxiation, carbon dioxide stunning, and ice
chilling (see references [173] and [174]). According to the World Organisation for Animal Health (OIE), these methods
fail to meet the standards set out in the Aquatic Animal Health Code.
Water quality, stock density, and rearing environment in aquaculture operations have major impacts on aquatic
organisms’ health and welfare. Sea lice and diseases are among major health concerns for farmed fish and can
reduce survival. Substances used to treat pests, such as lice, are usually administered via fish feed and water. When
treatment is not managed properly, these substances can negatively impact non-target species, such as
crustaceans, resulting in biodiversity loss (see topic 13.3 Biodiversity).
Genetic modification performed on terrestrial and aquatic animals to increase growth and productivity may also be a
source of negative impacts on animal health and welfare.
36 GRI 13: Agriculture, Aquaculture and Fishing Sectors 2022
Reporting on animal health and welfare
If the organization has determined animal health and welfare to be a material topic, this sub-section lists the
disclosures identified as relevant for reporting on the topic by the agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing sectors.
STANDARD DISCLOSURE SECTOR
STANDARD
REF. NO.
Management of the topic
GRI 3: Material Disclosure 3-3 Management of material topics 13.11.1
Topics 2021
Additional sector recommendations
• Describe policies regarding processing of animal products, animal
transportation, handling, housing and confinement, and slaughter, by species.
• Describe the approach to animal health planning and involvement of
veterinarians, including the approach to using anesthetic, antibiotic, anti-
inflammatory, hormone, and growth-promotion treatments, by species.
• Describe commitments for responsible and prudent use of antibiotics23 (e.g.,
avoiding prophylactic use) and describe how compliance with these
commitments is evaluated.
• Describe the results of assessments and audits of animal health and welfare,
by species.
Additional sector disclosures
Report the percentage of production volume24 from sites of the organization certified to third-party 13.11.2
animal health and welfare standards, and list these standards.
The following additional sector disclosure is for organizations in the aquaculture sector: 13.11.3
Report the survival percentage of farmed aquatic animals and the main causes of mortality.
References and resources
The authoritative instruments and references used in developing this topic, as well as resources that may be helpful
for reporting on animal health and welfare by the agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing sectors are listed in the
Bibliography.
23 Guidance on what constitutes responsible and prudent use for terrestrial animals can be found in Chapter 6.10 Responsible and prudent use of
antimicrobial agents in veterinary medicine in the Terrestrial Animal Health Code 2021 [168]. Guidance on what constitutes responsible and prudent use
for aquatic animals can be found in Chapter 6.2 Principles for responsible and prudent use of antimicrobial agents in aquatic animals in the Aquatic
Animal Health Code 2021 [167].
24 Production volume refers to the total volume of products of the organization, including products sourced by the organization from suppliers.
37 GRI 13: Agriculture, Aquaculture and Fishing Sectors 2022
Topic 13.12 Local communities
Local communities comprise individuals living or working in areas that are affected or that could be affected by
an organization’s activities. An organization is expected to conduct community engagement to understand the
vulnerabilities of local communities and how they may be affected by the organization’s activities. This topic
covers socioeconomic, cultural, health, and human rights impacts on local communities.
Agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing organizations can have positive impacts on local communities through
employment and other economic impacts, but their use of land and natural resources can also create negative
impacts on communities.
Local communities can experience economic and environmental impacts from the extensive use of groundwater and
surface water in agriculture operations. The depletion of water sources can create a need for deepening wells and
require more energy to pump water to the surface for irrigating crops and domestic purposes (see also topic 13.7
Water and effluents).
Land use by organizations in the agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing sectors can restrict communities’ access to
land and natural resources and, in some cases, lead to displacement. In the case of displacement, communities
may be resettled to other areas, which are not always equivalent in soil quality, suitability for agriculture, access to
services, or cultural and social significance. Compensation, if provided, may not always be adequate to make up for
the resulting impacts on cultural, economic, or leisure activities (see topic 13.13 Land and resource rights).
Inadequate management or disposal of hazardous substances used in agriculture and aquaculture, such as
pesticides, can impact the environment, food safety, and health of communities living in proximity to operations.
Cases of acute pesticide poisoning (APP) account for significant mortality worldwide, especially in developing
countries [189] (see also topic 13.6 Pesticides use). Gases released from manure and organic waste contribute to air
pollution, and odors can also cause disturbances to local communities (see also topic 13.1 Emissions and topic
13.8 Waste).
Although agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing organizations are often major employers and income providers in rural
areas, many rural communities still suffer from poverty and food insecurity. Lack of sufficient income and the negative
impacts on land, water, and biodiversity can cause migration to other more viable areas. This can cause labor
shortages and socioeconomic disruption in these areas (see also topic 13.22 Economic inclusion).
Vulnerable groups such as women, children, indigenous peoples, nomadic communities, and migrant workers and
their families can be disproportionately affected by agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing operations. Such groups often
lack influence and can be underrepresented in consultation and decision-making processes, increasing the potential
for negative impacts, including on their human rights.
Engagement and consultation with local communities, including vulnerable groups, can help to prevent negative
impacts (see also topic 13.13 Land and resource rights). Where groups do not have the right to free, prior, and
informed consent, they can be involved in participatory approaches to understand the effects of operations on their
lives, rights, and well-being. Organizations are also expected to establish or participate in effective operational-level
grievance mechanisms which enable local communities to raise concerns and seek remedy.25
25 Grievance mechanisms that the organization has established or participated in are reported in Disclosure 2-25 Processes to remediate negative
impacts in GRI 2: General Disclosures 2021. See Guidance to Disclosure 2-25 for more information on grievance mechanisms and expectations for
organizations to provide for or cooperate in remediation.
38 GRI 13: Agriculture, Aquaculture and Fishing Sectors 2022
Reporting on local communities
If the organization has determined local communities to be a material topic, this sub-section lists the disclosures
identified as relevant for reporting on the topic by the agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing sectors.
STANDARD DISCLOSURE SECTOR
STANDARD
REF. NO.
Management of the topic
GRI 3: Material Disclosure 3-3 Management of material topics 13.12.1
Topics 2021
Topic Standard disclosures
GRI 413: Local Disclosure 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact 13.12.2
Communities assessments, and development programs
2016
Disclosure 413-2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts 13.12.3
on local communities
References and resources
GRI 413: Local Communities 2016 lists authoritative intergovernmental instruments and additional references
relevant to reporting on this topic.
The additional authoritative instruments and references used in developing this topic, as well as resources that may
be helpful for reporting on local communities by the agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing sectors are listed in the
Bibliography.
39 GRI 13: Agriculture, Aquaculture and Fishing Sectors 2022
Topic 13.13 Land and resource rights
Land and resource rights encompass the rights to use, manage and control land, fisheries, forests, and other
natural resources. An organization’s impacts on the availability and accessibility of these can affect local
communities and other users. This topic covers impacts on human rights and tenure rights that result from an
organization’s use of land and natural resources.
Acquiring legal rights to land and natural resources is often a complex process. In addition, forms of land and
resource tenure vary and can include public, private, communal, collective, indigenous, and customary tenure. Lack of
recognition of customary claim to lands, fisheries, forests, and other natural resources – whether or not they are
formally titled or legally registered – is a common cause of land and natural resource conflicts and negative impacts
on human rights. Human rights, including people’s civil, political, economic, social, and cultural rights, can all be
affected by the sectors’ use of land, fisheries, and forests [193].
Agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing organizations can be granted land and fishing concessions over territories and
fishing resources. Informal tenure in some countries reaches from 80 to 90% of total land, and those living on this
land might lack legal protection [204]. Organizations may infringe on land and resource rights if they fail to undertake
prior consultation and an assessment of the impacts with rightsholders. Fencing, landscape engineering, roads, and
drainage works that block or divert routes may also restrict people’s rights.
Rightsholders whose rights are most commonly affected by resource rights conflicts include farmers and fishers and
their organizations, forest users, pastoralists, indigenous peoples, and local communities (see also topic 13.14
Rights of indigenous peoples and topic 13.12 Local communities).
Box 2. Human rights and land rights defenders
Conflict situations can expose those who defend the rights related to land and natural resources to risks. More and
more land rights defenders, smallholder farmers, indigenous community leaders, media, and civil society
representatives active on these issues have become victims of violence and persecution. United Nations bodies,
including special rapporteurs26 on human rights defenders, the right to food, and indigenous peoples, have
reported physical attacks and reprisals against defenders who oppose land appropriation and denounce forced
evictions, environmental pollution and other violations [200].
Fish captured in the wild is usually a common property resource. Therefore, fishing communities are important
stakeholders concerned with the use of fishery resources and the entire ecosystem. This includes access to ports,
waters, high seas, and catch quotas.
Fishery resources rights can be granted to organizations without due consideration for local fishers. Commercial
fishing vessels accessing fishing zones reserved for or used by small-scale fishers and fishing in coastal areas can
change fishery resources by disrupting fish breeding habitats.
Agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing organizations are expected to identify legitimate rightsholders through their own
assessments and ensure independent verification of assessment results. Organizations can contribute to securing
land tenure and access to natural resources for rightsholders by requiring their suppliers to respect such rights.
26 Special rapporteurs are mandate-holders for special procedures of the United Nations Human Rights Council. They are independent human rights
experts with mandates to report and advise on human rights from a thematic or country-specific perspective. See reference [199] in the Bibliography.
40 GRI 13: Agriculture, Aquaculture and Fishing Sectors 2022
Reporting on land and resource rights
If the organization has determined land and resource rights to be a material topic, this sub-section lists the
disclosures identified as relevant for reporting on the topic by the agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing sectors.
STANDARD DISCLOSURE SECTOR
STANDARD
REF. NO.
Management of the topic
GRI 3: Material Disclosure 3-3 Management of material topics 13.13.1
Topics 2021
Additional sector recommendations
• Describe commitments to respect land and natural resource rights (including
customary, collective, and informal tenure rights)27 and report the extent to
which the commitments apply to the organization’s activities and to its
business relationships.
• Describe how the commitments to respect land and natural resource rights
are implemented with suppliers.
• Describe the approach to protecting human rights and land rights defenders
from reprisals (i.e., non-retaliation for raising complaints or concerns).
Additional sector disclosures
List the locations of operations, where land and natural resource rights (including customary, 13.13.2
collective, and informal tenure rights) may be affected by the organization’s operations.
Report the number, size in hectares, and location of operations where violations of land and natural 13.13.3
resource rights (including customary, collective, and informal tenure rights) occurred and the groups of
rightsholders affected.
References and resources
The authoritative instruments and references used in developing this topic, as well as resources that may be helpful
for reporting on land and resource rights by the agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing sectors are listed in the
Bibliography.
27 The Voluntary guidelines on the responsible governance of tenure of land, fisheries and forests in the context of national food security outlines
guiding principles, rights and responsibilities for responsible tenure governance. In article 3.2, it specifies that ‘non-state actors including business
enterprises have a responsibility to respect human rights and legitimate tenure rights’ and outlines the associated expectations [193].
41 GRI 13: Agriculture, Aquaculture and Fishing Sectors 2022
Topic 13.14 Rights of indigenous peoples
Indigenous peoples are at higher risk of experiencing negative impacts more severely as a result of an
organization’s activities. Indigenous peoples have both collective and individual rights, as set out in the United
Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples and other authoritative international human rights
instruments. This topic covers impacts on the rights of indigenous peoples.
Indigenous peoples find deep cultural and spiritual value in their lands and territories, and often rely on natural
resources for subsistence. These natural resources and cultural sites are located on land that indigenous
communities customarily own, occupy, or use. Customary rights – a cornerstone of the rights of indigenous peoples
under international law – are frequently not recognized in practice, which can lead to these rights being violated (see
topic 13.13. Land and resource rights).
The agriculture sector is a significant driver of land acquisitions to expand food production. Large-scale land
acquisitions, including through foreign investment, can be facilitated to increase the size of farms and plantations and
generate revenues through export. This often happens in regions where indigenous peoples have long derived their
livelihoods from what ecosystems offer.
The use of natural resources by the agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing sectors can have acute impacts on
indigenous peoples. These impacts can threaten traditional hunting, fishing, and farming activities. Indigenous
knowledge and culture may also be lost when disrupted.
Indigenous farming practices are intertwined with indigenous cultures and are deeply linked to particular places.
Natural ecosystem conversion and water use for agricultural and aquacultural activities can affect traditional farming.
The environmental impacts from waste can lead to pollution and contamination of indigenous land and natural
resources.
Indigenous fishing communities rely on fish as their main food source, which is a central part of their traditional
practices so their livelihoods, food security, and culture can be undermined due to the negative impacts on fishery
resources. The degradation of local aquatic and coastal ecosystems, overfishing, and stock depletion, can reduce the
availability and accessibility of these fishery resources. At the same time, the increased competition with commercial
fishing operations or the introduction of non-local species can also negatively impact fishery resources.
Because of the close relationship with the environment and dependence on natural resources, indigenous peoples
are particularly affected by climate change. Climate change can further exacerbate the vulnerability of indigenous
communities due to impacts on the availability of traditional food sources and decreased crop yields, jeopardizing
traditional lifestyles (see also topic 13.2 Climate adaptation and resilience and topic 13.3 Biodiversity).
The fundamental rights to self-determination and non-discrimination mandate respect for indigenous peoples’
collective and individual rights. Before initiating development or other activities that could have impacts on lands or
resources that indigenous peoples use or own, organizations are expected to seek free, prior, and informed consent
(FPIC). The relocation of indigenous peoples cannot occur without FPIC, and an agreement on just and fair
compensation must be in place before relocation occurs and, where possible, with the option of return [210].
When disputes take place, indigenous communities often lack legal and technical support, as well as access to
remedy. This can lead to unfair compensation for lost access to resources, income insecurity, marginalization of
indigenous communities, discrimination, displacement, loss of livelihood, and other negative impacts on human
rights. In addition, indigenous women may be more severely exposed to negative impacts because of gender
discrimination (see topic 13.15 Non-discrimination and equal opportunity).
42 GRI 13: Agriculture, Aquaculture and Fishing Sectors 2022
Reporting on rights of indigenous peoples
If the organization has determined rights of indigenous peoples to be a material topic, this sub-section lists the
disclosures identified as relevant for reporting on the topic by the agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing sectors.
STANDARD DISCLOSURE SECTOR
STANDARD
REF. NO.
Management of the topic
GRI 3: Material Disclosure 3-3 Management of material topics 13.14.1
Topics 2021
Additional sector recommendations
• Describe the approach to engaging with indigenous peoples, including:
- how the organization seeks to ensure meaningful engagement;
- how the organization seeks to ensure indigenous women can participate
safely and equitably.
Topic Standard disclosures
GRI 411: Rights Disclosure 411-1 Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples 13.14.2
of Indigenous
Additional sector recommendations
Peoples 2016
• Describe the identified incidents of violations involving the rights of indigenous
peoples.
Additional sector disclosures
List the locations of operations where indigenous peoples are present or affected by activities of the 13.14.3
organization.
• Report if the organization has been involved in a process of seeking free, prior, and informed 13.14.4
consent (FPIC)28 from indigenous peoples for any of the organization’s activities, including, in each
case:
- whether the process has been mutually accepted by the organization and the affected
indigenous peoples;
- how the organization ensured that the constituent elements of FPIC have been implemented as
part of the process;29
- whether an agreement has been reached and, if so, whether the agreement is publicly
available.
References and resources
GRI 411: Rights of Indigenous Peoples 2016 lists authoritative intergovernmental instruments and additional
references relevant to reporting on this topic.
The additional intergovernmental instruments and references used in developing this topic, as well as resources that
may be helpful for reporting on the rights of indigenous peoples by the agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing sectors
are listed in the Bibliography.
28 The normative framework for free, prior and informed consent consists of a series of international legal instruments including the United Nations
Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples [210], the International Labour Organization Convention 169 (ILO 169) [208], and the Convention on
Biological Diversity (CBD) [209].
29 Free, prior and informed consent cannot be achieved if one of the constituent elements is missing [210]. The constituent elements are further
described in ‘Free, prior and informed consent: a human rights-based approach -Study of the Expert Mechanism on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples’
[224].
43 GRI 13: Agriculture, Aquaculture and Fishing Sectors 2022
Topic 13.15 Non-discrimination and equal opportunity
Freedom from discrimination is a human right and a fundamental right at work. Discrimination can impose
unequal burdens on individuals or deny fair opportunities on the basis of individual merit. This topic covers
impacts from discrimination and an organization’s practices related to equal opportunity.
Many agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing sector workers are self-employed or informally employed. Casual and
seasonal employment is also widespread. Non-standard forms of employment common in the sectors can be a
factor increasing the likelihood of discriminatory treatment of workers. Workers can often face discrimination in terms
of labor protection and might not enjoy equal rights or treatment for work of equal value, including lower job security,
wages, benefits, and paid leave.
The agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing sectors commonly use migrant labor, including temporary migrant labor.
Because of their migrant status, migrant workers may be subject to discriminatory treatment regarding remuneration,
access to occupational health services, and employment protection. In fishing, vessel crews are typically subject to
discriminatory pay based on nationality. Undocumented migrant workers can be even more vulnerable to
discrimination and labor abuses (see also topic 13.16 Forced or compulsory labor and topic 13.20 Employment
practices).
People living off traditional farming and fishing, including smallholder farmers, landless workers, and communities,
can experience discriminatory treatment. For example, they may face inequality in accessing land or employment,
thus lacking opportunities to provide for themselves. This can exacerbate the likelihood of negative impacts on their
human rights and render them more vulnerable to labor exploitation (see topic 13.12 Local communities).
Characteristics among indigenous workers that may deviate from social practices of the majority, including
languages and clothing, can also lead to employment discrimination in the sectors. Indigenous women can face
discrimination on the grounds of both ethnicity and gender.
Women working in agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing often experience gender discrimination through poorer
working conditions, unequal opportunities, and lower wages than those of men. Women are more frequently involved
in lower-paid or less secure forms of employment. In fishing, women play crucial roles throughout the value chain,
working for commercial and small-scale fisheries, however, they are typically less involved in offshore and long-
distance fishing, which usually pays more.
Women are also often less involved in cooperatives and farmer organizations, limiting their access to processing
facilities, improved technologies, and agricultural inputs. The result can be lower earnings due to smaller yields
despite working long hours.
Discrimination against women in the agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing sectors can also include gender-based
violence and harassment. It is less likely that women performing seasonal work or informal work report sexual
violence and other abuses they experience, and women in such work arrangements may have less possibility to seek
remedy.
Box 3. Women’s rights
The majority of economically active women in low-income countries work in agriculture [229]. In many countries,
women do not have the same rights as men, or even if they do legally, the rights may go unrecognized. These
include rights to buy, sell, or inherit land; to open a savings account or borrow money; to sign a contract; and to sell
their produce.
Traditional gender roles can restrict women’s freedom of movement and prevent them from bringing their produce
to market or leaving their villages without the permission of male relatives. Social conventions and gender norms
often regard women’s work activities and output as part of their traditional caretaking role rather than participation in
the market economy, thus underestimating their economic contribution. Women in these situations do not enjoy the
right to the same decent standard of living as men.
Women can also be denied their rights when it comes to maternity protection. Benefits such as maternity leave and
childcare allowance might be inaccessible for women in the agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing sectors.
44 GRI 13: Agriculture, Aquaculture and Fishing Sectors 2022
Reporting on non-discrimination and equal opportunity
If the organization has determined non-discrimination and equal opportunity to be a material topic, this sub-section
lists the disclosures identified as relevant for reporting on the topic by the agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing
sectors.
STANDARD DISCLOSURE SECTOR
STANDARD
REF. NO.
Management of the topic
GRI 3: Material Disclosure 3-3 Management of material topics 13.15.1
Topics 2021
Topic Standard disclosures
GRI 405: Diversity Disclosure 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 13.15.2
and Equal
Disclosure 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men 13.15.3
Opportunity 2016
Additional sector recommendations
• Report the ratio of the basic salary and remuneration of women to men for
workers who are not employees and whose work is controlled by the
organization.
GRI 406: Non- Disclosure 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 13.15.4
discrimination
2016
Additional sector disclosures
Describe any differences in employment terms and approach to compensation based on workers’ 13.15.5
nationality or migrant status, by location of operations.
References and resources
GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016 and GRI 406: Non-discrimination 2016 list authoritative
intergovernmental instruments relevant to reporting on this topic.
The additional authoritative instruments and references used in developing this topic, as well as resources that may
bbee hheellppffuull ffoorr rreeppoorrttiinngg oonn nnoonn--ddiissccrriimmiinnaattiioonn aanndd eeqquuaall ooppppoorrttuunniittyy bbyy tthhee aaggrriiccuullttuurree,, aaqquuaaccuullttuurree,, aanndd ffiisshhiinngg
sectors are listed in the Bibliography.
45 GRI 13: Agriculture, Aquaculture and Fishing Sectors 2022
Topic 13.16 Forced or compulsory labor
Forced or compulsory labor is work or service which is exacted from any person under the menace of penalty
and for which a person has not offered themselves voluntarily. Freedom from forced labor is a human right and a
fundamental right at work.
The International Laboure Organization (ILO) has identified the agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing sectors as highly
susceptible to forced or compulsory labor. Workers face non-payment or late payment of wages, restrictions on
freedom of movement, violence, threats, human trafficking, and other forms of modern slavery. Instances of forced
labor have been documented in the supply chains of most products in the sectors (see references [251], [256] and
[257]).
Agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing workers are unlikely to be unionized, often earn less, and have fewer skills than
workers in other sectors. The sectors are labor-intensive and have a high demand for workers, often filled by
employment agencies. National labor laws do not always provide labor protection to smallholder farmers, small-
scale fishers, or seasonal and casual workers (see topic 13.20 Employment practices).
Work is often undertaken in remote or low-income rural areas. This can exacerbate the likelihood of abusive labor
practices and cause workers to become indebted to their employers due to fees owed for job access or
accommodation. In some cases, employers may use debt bondage to prevent workers from leaving.
Migrant workers in the sectors are more likely to work under conditions of coercion. They may not have valid work
permits or be unaware of their legal status and even have their passports or identification documents taken away.
Undocumented migrant workers can also be forced or coerced into illegal farming or fishing operations, carrying
higher risks for their health and safety.
Migrant fishing workers are a particularly vulnerable group. They often come from lower-income countries and can be
trafficked or unaware of having crossed multiple borders, putting their human rights and even their lives at risk.
In fishing operations, the continued pressure to deliver higher product volumes while keeping labor costs low can
contribute to instances of abusive labor practices. Eliminating forced labor aboard fishing vessels and enforcing
workers’ rights can require additional effort because fishing vessels regularly operate offshore or under the flag of a
country far removed from the fishing location. International standards largely rely on flag states to enforce labor laws
on board fishing vessels.
Identifying and preventing forced labor also requires understanding supply chains, where traceability plays a key role
(see topic 13.23 Supply chain traceability).
46 GRI 13: Agriculture, Aquaculture and Fishing Sectors 2022
Reporting on forced or compulsory labor
If the organization has determined forced or compulsory labor to be a material topic, this sub-section lists the
disclosures identified as relevant for reporting on the topic by the agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing sectors.
STANDARD DISCLOSURE SECTOR
STANDARD
REF. NO.
Management of the topic
GRI 3: Material Disclosure 3-3 Management of material topics 13.16.1
Topics 2021
Topic Standard disclosures
GRI 409: Forced Disclosure 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of 13.16.2
or Compulsory forced or compulsory labor
Labor 2016
References and resources
GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labor 2016 lists authoritative intergovernmental instruments relevant to reporting on
this topic.
The additional intergovernmental instruments and references used in developing this topic, as well as resources that
may be helpful for reporting on forced or compulsory labor by the agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing sectors are
listed in the Bibliography.
47 GRI 13: Agriculture, Aquaculture and Fishing Sectors 2022
Topic 13.17 Child labor
Child labor is defined as work that deprives children of their childhood, their potential, and their dignity, and that is
harmful to their development, including by interfering with their education. It is a violation of human rights and can
lead to lifelong negative impacts. Abolition of child labor is a fundamental principle and right at work.
The agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing sectors have the highest share of child labor compared to all other sectors
and instances of child labor have been documented in the supply chains of many products in the sectors (see
references [266] and [272]).30
More than 70% of all children in child labor are engaged in agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing. This is even higher
among those aged five to 11 [266]. In some contexts, children's participation in non-hazardous agriculture,
aquaculture, and fishing work can contribute to a child’s skill-building and personal development. However, work
defined as child labor is not associated with positive impacts and is considered inappropriate for a child based on
hazards, hours, conditions of work, and interference with schooling. In some parts of the world, child labor may be
socially acceptable, contributing to the propagation of the practice.
Children working in agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing may perform tasks suited only for adult workers. These tasks
are likely to have negative impacts on their health or development. For example, children can be tasked with applying
pesticides in the agriculture sector. Exposure to pesticides can be particularly hazardous for children, as their bodies
are more vulnerable to toxins, leading to increased risks of childhood cancers and impaired cognitive processes.
Children are often designated to take care of animals. Because animal production activities are intensive, involving
cleaning animals and their housing, collecting water, feeding, and milking, children can drop out of schooling, unable
to combine it with this type of work.
In fishing, children work throughout the supply chain, performing tasks such as catching, processing, and selling fish
and other aquatic products. Fishing communities may have few sources of income, and child labor is frequently used
to supplement income or in subsistence activities. Long hours and nightshifts in these sectors can also subject
children to hazardous working conditions (see topic 13.19 Occupational Health and Safety).
Large parts of the agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing sectors involve informal work, increasing the likelihood of child
labor. Seasonal work presents additional risks and raises the likelihood of school absence. Missing school for work
negatively affects children’s right to education.
Less than one-third of children undertaking work receive payment. In many cases this is because children are
working in family-run operations. Children also typically earn less than adults and, in some cases, they are also more
productive, which employers may find advantageous.
The International Labour Organization (ILO) identifies forced child labor and hazardous child labor as the worst forms
of child labor [259]. A quarter of children in child labor fall victim to forced labor (see topic 13.16 Forced or compulsory
labor). This can happen when, for example, labor brokers recruit and force children to travel far from home. In cases of
debt bondage to an employer, parents might have their children work alongside them.
Young workers are also recognized as a vulnerable group under child labor standards and are subject to protection
from hazardous work, which they may be exposed to in the sectors.
Box 4. Young workers
Young workers above the applicable minimum working age and younger than 18 years are subject to specific
protections regarding the types of work they can perform. Young persons are still in cognitive and physical
development and therefore considered more vulnerable to negative impacts at work than adults.
According to the ILO, the work performed by young workers needs to be consistent with their physical and mental
development. Young workers in agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing may be exposed to hazardous working
conditions, occupational injuries, and disease. Restrictions also apply to work hours to reduce their vulnerability.
30 The United States Department of Labor has documented cases of child labor in the production of bananas in Belize, Brazil, Ecuador, Nicaragua, and
the Philippines; beans in Mexico and Paraguay; citrus fruit in Belize and Turkey; cocoa in Brazil, Cameroon, Ghana, Guinea, and Sierra Leone; coffee
in Brazil, Colombia, Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Guatemala, Guinea, Honduras, Kenya, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama, Sierra Leone,
Tanzania, Uganda, and Vietnam; and rice in Brazil, Dominican Republic, Kenya, the Philippines, Uganda, and Vietnam. They have also documented
cases of child labor in the production of beef in Brazil, and cattle in Chad, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Ethiopia, Lesotho, Mauritania, Namibia, Uganda,
and Zambia. Child labor in aquaculture has been documented in cases involving fish in Brazil, Cambodia, Kenya, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines,
Uganda, Vietnam, and Yemen; shellfish in El Salvador and Nicaragua; and shrimp in Bangladesh and Cambodia [272].
48 GRI 13: Agriculture, Aquaculture and Fishing Sectors 2022
Reporting on child labor
If the organization has determined child labor to be a material topic, this sub-section lists the disclosures identified as
relevant for reporting on the topic by the agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing sectors.
STANDARD DISCLOSURE SECTOR
STANDARD
REF. NO.
Management of the topic
GRI 3: Material Disclosure 3-3 Management of material topics 13.17.1
Topics 2021
Topic Standard disclosures
GRI 408: Child Disclosure 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child 13.17.2
Labor 2016 labor
References and resources
GRI 408: Child Labor 2016 lists authoritative intergovernmental instruments and additional references relevant to
reporting on this topic.
The additional intergovernmental instruments and references used in developing this topic, as well as resources that
may be helpful for reporting on child labor by the agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing sectors are listed in the
Bibliography.
49 GRI 13: Agriculture, Aquaculture and Fishing Sectors 2022
Topic 13.18 Freedom of association and collective bargaining
Freedom of association and collective bargaining are human rights and fundamental rights at work. They include
the rights of employers and workers to form, join, and run their own organizations without prior authorization or
interference, and to collectively negotiate working conditions and terms of employment. This topic covers an
organization’s approach and impacts related to freedom of association and collective bargaining.
The rights to freedom of association and collective bargaining of many workers in the agriculture, aquaculture, and
fishing sectors remain at risk. Workers are still denied their rights to organize and bargain collectively in many
countries, preventing them from effectively protecting their interests.
Low-income workers, workers in informal employment, migrant, seasonal, and casual workers face barriers to
exercising the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining. This is amplified by the asymmetric balance
of power between employers and workers. Lack of access to freedom of association and collective bargaining can
exacerbate impacts on workers who already face increased work-related vulnerabilities and isolation (see topic 13.15
Non-discrimination and equal opportunity).
While it is more common for workers in large commercial agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing operations to be
represented by trade unions and covered by collective bargaining agreements, only a small percentage are
organized. Organizations preventing unionization of workers in the sectors is a recurring issue. Trade unions’
members have also experienced intimidation and violence (see references [281], [286] and [287]).
Seasonal workers might find it hard to join unions due to their short-term employment. Trade unions have reported
restrictions on temporary workers or workers employed by suppliers to access the same rights as other employees
effectively. In some cases, organizations purposely hire workers on short-term contracts or outsource jobs so that
workers are not able to join trade unions. Migrant workers can be more vulnerable in this regard, as they can be
explicitly banned from joining national unions of countries where they work.
According to the International Labour Organization (ILO), all workers – including self‐employed persons, smallholder
farmers, small-scale fishers, and those working in the informal economy – should enjoy the right to freedom of
association and collective bargaining.
50 GRI 13: Agriculture, Aquaculture and Fishing Sectors 2022
Reporting on freedom of association and collective bargaining
If the organization has determined freedom of association and collective bargaining to be a material topic, this section
lists the disclosures identified as relevant for reporting on the topic by the agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing
sectors.
STANDARD DISCLOSURE SECTOR
STANDARD
REF. NO.
Management of the topic
GRI 3: Material Disclosure 3-3 Management of material topics 13.18.1
Topics 2021
Topic Standard disclosures
GRI 407: Disclosure 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of 13.18.2
Freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at risk
Association and
Collective
Bargaining 2016
References and resources
GRI 407: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 2016 lists authoritative intergovernmental instruments
relevant to reporting on this topic.
The additional intergovernmental instruments and references used in developing this topic, as well as resources that
may be helpful for reporting on freedom of association and collective bargaining by the agriculture, aquaculture, and
fishing sectors are listed in the Bibliography.
51 GRI 13: Agriculture, Aquaculture and Fishing Sectors 2022
Topic 13.19 Occupational health and safety
Healthy and safe work conditions are recognized as a human right. Occupational health and safety involves the
prevention of physical and mental harm to workers and promotion of workers’ health. This topic covers impacts
related to workers’ health and safety.
Agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing are listed among the most hazardous sectors, with high numbers of work-related
injuries and ill health each year (see references [304] and [309]). Work-related hazards associated with agriculture,
aquaculture, and fishing include:
• handling dangerous machinery, tools, vessels, and vehicles;
• exposure to excessive noise and vibration, causing hearing and other sensory problems;
• slips, trips, falls from heights, falls overboard, and drowning;
• working with animals considerably heavier than the worker, lifting heavy weights, and other work giving rise to
musculoskeletal disorders;
• working near people or animals, increasing the risk of exposure to infectious diseases;
• attacks by wild animals;
• exposure to dust and potentially harmful organic substances and chemicals;
• exposure to extreme temperatures and severe weather.
Because workers in agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing sectors often live where they work, occupational health and
safety impacts can also be associated with workers’ living conditions. Adequate working and living conditions provide
access to potable drinking water, quantity and quality of food, hygiene, sanitation, and appropriate accommodation.
Workers are entitled to safe, hygienic, and socially acceptable access to sanitation, a lack thereof can increase the
risk of contracting infectious diseases.
Workers may work long hours and many consecutive days in the agriculture sector, especially when harvesting crops.
They can be exposed to pesticides and other chemical substances used. Children living with workers on farms and
plantations can also be exposed to hazardous substances (see also topic 13.6 Pesticides use and topic 13.17 Child
labor).
Fishing is associated with many risks, such as ill health, work-related injuries, and death. Fishing far offshore is
considered one of the most dangerous occupations. Vessel disasters and falls overboard pose the greatest safety
risks and are the sector’s leading causes of fatalities. Vessel safety risks are linked to weather, lack of weather
warning systems, power loss, engine failure, or inadequate maintenance levels. At-sea crew transfers between
fishing vessels and support vessels can pose additional safety risks, especially in rough seas.
Most fishing vessels fall outside of size parameters regulated by international maritime safety standards. Small-scale
fishers operate millions of fishing vessels that vary in degree of sophistication. Frequently, these vessels prove
unsuitable for the conditions in which they may be used, such as carrying considerable amounts of fish or sailing far
offshore.
Vessel safety standards address risks related to general safety, such as fire safety, lighting, ventilation, personal
safety, vessel stability, and survival at sea. Vessel safety training serves to prevent vessel disasters and ensure
compliance with the safety standards. Insurance schemes can further provide income security for fishers and, in case
of death or injury, to their families.
Primary fish processing, such as catching, sorting, and storing fish, often requires handling dangerous tools, such as
knives and hooks. When fish are manually beheaded, gutted, skinned, or filleted, it is common for workers to
experience cuts or severe lacerations. Fish and other aquatic animals' bites, stings, and tail kicks can also lead to
injuries. In the case of ill health or injury offshore, professional medical care or even an urgent medical evacuation
might be unavailable.
Fishing can involve long hours at sea, far offshore. The daily and weekly rest requirements determined by crewing
levels can also affect fishing crews' health and safety. Because workers can reside aboard fishing vessels for long
periods, poor living conditions can also disrupt their rest periods. Fishers may also experience difficulty taking shore
leave or getting off their vessels at foreign ports.
Fishers may be abandoned by vessel owners without the prospect of payment or repatriation (see topic 13.20
Employment practices). There have been documented cases showing some abandonment lasting for many months.
Abandonment can have health and safety impacts, including lack of medical care and regular food provision and
harm to mental health caused by keeping people in a state of high uncertainty.
52 GRI 13: Agriculture, Aquaculture and Fishing Sectors 2022
Due to a lack of safety norms enforcement and inspection, illegal fishing operations and operations in contested
waters can negatively impact the health and safety of workers. Addressing illegal, unreported, and unregulated (IUU)
fishing in supply chains can help eliminate factors leading to compromised health and safety standards (see also
topic 13.23 Supply chain traceability).
The often isolated and transboundary movement of vessels means consistent access for labor inspection, and
occupational health and safety policy enforcement remains difficult.
53 GRI 13: Agriculture, Aquaculture and Fishing Sectors 2022
Reporting on occupational health and safety
If the organization has determined occupational health and safety to be a material topic, this sub-section lists the
disclosures identified as relevant for reporting on the topic by the agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing sectors.
STANDARD DISCLOSURE SECTOR
STANDARD
REF. NO.
Management of the topic
GRI 3: Material Disclosure 3-3 Management of material topics 13.19.1
Topics 2021
Additional sector recommendations
The following additional sector recommendation is for organizations in the fishing
sector:
• Describe policies on maximum working hours and minimum hours of rest for
workers on fishing vessels and the approach to limiting worker fatigue.31
Topic Standard disclosures
GRI 403: Disclosure 403-1 Occupational health and safety management system 13.19.2
Occupational
Disclosure 403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident 13.19.3
Health and
investigation
Safety 2018
Disclosure 403-3 Occupational health services 13.19.4
Additional sector recommendations
The following additional sector recommendation is for organizations in the fishing
sector:
• Describe any occupational health services’ functions that specifically address
the occupational health and safety risks for workers aboard fishing vessels,
including workers operating in high seas, and explain how the organization
facilitates workers’ access to these services.
Disclosure 403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and communication on 13.19.5
occupational health and safety
Disclosure 403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety 13.19.6
Disclosure 403-6 Promotion of worker health 13.19.7
Disclosure 403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and safety 13.19.8
impacts directly linked by business relationships
Disclosure 403-8 Workers covered by an occupational health and safety 13.19.9
management system
Disclosure 403-9 Work-related injuries 13.19.10
Disclosure 403-10 Work-related ill health 13.19.11
References and resources
GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2018 lists authoritative intergovernmental instruments and additional
references relevant to reporting on this topic.
The additional authoritative instruments and references used in developing this topic, as well as resources that may
be helpful for reporting on occupational health and safety by the agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing sectors are listed
in the Bibliography.
31 The minimum hours of rest are set out in the International Labour Organization (ILO) Convention 188, ‘Work in Fishing Convention’ [388].
54 GRI 13: Agriculture, Aquaculture and Fishing Sectors 2022
Topic 13.20 Employment practices
Employment practices refer to an organization’s approach to job creation, terms of employment and working
conditions for its workers. This topic also covers the employment and working conditions in an organization’s
supply chain.
An employment relationship is a legal relationship between a worker and an organization that confers rights and
obligations to both parties. Informal employment is widespread in the agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing sectors,
with work performed not being registered. Globally, 94% of workers in the agricultural sector are in informal
employment [336].
Informal workers do not have a secure employment contract and may be left without legal protection and employment
benefits; their working time and other terms of employment are not clearly defined. Informal work also frequently goes
undeclared, violating labor law and undermining tax collection.
Where a formal employment relationship exists, a lack of transparency can still surround daily hours, pay rates, and
working conditions. For example, workers can face unjustified or nontransparent deductions from their pay.
Employers might withhold a portion of pay to cover various costs, such as recruitment fees, food supplies and water,
accommodation, taking leave to rest, or transferring payments to workers’ families. In-kind payments, bonuses and
piece rates are common forms of compensation. This can enhance productivity but may result in a lack of certainty
around total earnings and limit a worker’s buying power.
Employment arrangements in these sectors and related supply chains can be complex and involve many actors.
Agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing organizations may rely on workers engaged directly, through employment
agencies, or by suppliers. Employers may classify workers they engage as self-employed or engage workers through
a third party to avoid a direct employment relationship. Such situations are referred to as disguised employment and
can lead to workers being denied their due benefits. Similar negative impacts occur when workers are employed via
temporary or daily contracts on an ongoing basis.
While employment agencies fulfill the sectors’ demands, documented cases show that fundamental principles and
rights at work are regularly violated where there is no due diligence on how these agencies operate. Workers can face
unjustified recruitment fees, unlawful employment conditions, and restrictions on terminating their engagement.
Unethical employment and recruitment practices in the sectors can also increase worker vulnerability and lead to
exploitation. Fair or ethical recruitment means hiring workers lawfully and in a fair, transparent manner that respects
their dignity and human rights (see references [329], [342] and [343]). Ethical recruitment is characterized by:
• recruitment fees being borne by the employer;
• respect for freedom of movement;
• transparent employment terms and conditions;
• confidentiality and data protection;
• access to remedy.
Migrant workers often fill the need for labor in agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing. Migrant status, language, and
communication barriers commonly leave migrant workers disadvantaged in terms of remuneration, housing, and
social and medical protection (see topic 13.15 Non-discrimination and equal opportunity).
Box 5. Migrant workers
Migrant workers can be particularly vulnerable to unethical labor practices and abuse. They are more likely to face
pay discrimination and less favorable employment terms because they depend on employers or employment
agencies for jobs and work permits.
Migrant workers can be made to pay a fee to access jobs in the agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing sectors and to
hand over identity documents, which prevents them from leaving employers. Such practices make migrant workers
fall victim to bonded or forced or compulsory labor, labor exploitation, and human trafficking (see also topic 13.16
Forced or compulsory labor).
International labor standards expect workers in the agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing sectors to have decent
conditions of work, including accommodations, food, transportation to and from the workplace, and accident
insurance, where applicable. For fishers, international labor and maritime standards specify the right to repatriation in
case of abandonment.
55 GRI 13: Agriculture, Aquaculture and Fishing Sectors 2022
Reporting on employment practices
If the organization has determined employment practices to be a material topic, this sub-section lists the disclosures
identified as relevant for reporting on the topic by the agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing sectors.
STANDARD DISCLOSURE SECTOR
STANDARD
REF. NO.
Management of the topic
GRI 3: Material Disclosure 3-3 Management of material topics 13.20.1
Topics 2021
Additional sector recommendations
• Describe policies or commitments regarding recruitment of workers, including:
- whether the organization has an ethical recruitment policy and, if so, a link
to this policy if publicly available;
- whether these policies and commitments cover the approach to
recruitment fees;
- whether these policies and commitments prohibit the withholding of identity
documents, such as passports;
- whether under these policies workers are provided with written contracts in
a language understood by the worker;
- whether these policies and commitments apply to employment agencies
used to recruit workers;
- how instances of non-compliance with these policies and commitments
are identified and addressed.
• Describe the approach to worker compensation, including:
- whether it is based on bonuses and piece rates, and any deductions or
withholdings from compensation;
- the approach to in-kind payments, including the percentage of
remuneration paid in kind at significant locations of operation.
• Describe the approach to actions taken to determine and address situations
where work undertaken within the supply chain does not take place within
appropriate institutional and legal frameworks, including:32
- situations where persons working for suppliers are not provided the social
and labor protection that they are entitled to receive by national labor law;
- situations where working conditions in the organization’s supply chain do
not meet international labor standards or national labor law;
- situations of disguised employment relationships where workers in the
organization’s supply chain are falsely considered to be self-employed or
where there is no legally recognized employer;
- situations where work undertaken in the organization’s supply chain is not
subject to legally recognized contracts.
References and resources
GRI 401: Employment 2016 lists authoritative intergovernmental instruments relevant to reporting on this topic.
The additional authoritative instruments and references used in developing this topic, as well as resources that may
be helpful for reporting on employment practices by the agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing sectors are listed in the
Bibliography.
32 These additional sector recommendations are based on clause 1.2 in GRI 401: Employment 2016.
56 GRI 13: Agriculture, Aquaculture and Fishing Sectors 2022
Topic 13.21 Living income and living wage
Living income and living wage refer to such level of income or wage which is sufficient to afford a decent
standard of living for all household members, including nutritious food, clean water, housing, education,
healthcare, and other essential needs, such as provision for unexpected events. This topic covers the
organization’s approach to worker compensation in the context of whether it provides for living income or living
wage.
As recognized by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, all workers have a right to just and favorable
remuneration that ensures an existence worthy of human dignity for themselves and their families. The lack of a
decent standard of living can lead to poverty, malnutrition, and limited access to basic services. Providing living
income or living wage helps reduce inequality and in-work poverty.
Workers in agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing are more than four times more likely to be in poverty than those in
other sectors [356]. Ensuring living income or living wage for workers includes paying self-employed farmers and
fishers a fair price for their products or providing such remuneration for a standard workweek to waged workers that is
sufficient to afford a decent standard of living.
A legally set minimum wage can sometimes be used as a proxy for a living wage. However, a living wage is
calculated based on requirements for a decent standard of living and can be higher than the minimum wage. In many
countries, wage workers in the agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing sectors fall outside of national minimum wage
regulations or are subject to sector-specific minimum wage rates that are lower than those applied to other
categories of workers. A high spread of informal employment in these sectors also poses a major barrier to the
enforcement of wage norms.
Workers in agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing can be compensated in various ways, such as in-kind payment of a
share of their catch or harvest, or bonuses and piece rates, making them more vulnerable to under-compensation
(see topic 13.20 Employment practices). While international labor standards do not set a specific threshold, the
International Labour Organization (ILO) has questioned whether a high proportion of wages, such as more than 50%,
being paid in-kind is appropriate given its potential to diminish workers’ financial income [351].
Many fishers and farmers are categorized as self-employed workers because they do not receive wages but are
compensated according to their production. Protections for this type of worker might not exist, so their incomes may
depend on the individuals’ negotiating power, production levels, and prices. However, prices may be subject to
volatile or unfavorable market forces and can be set without accounting for possible production losses due to weather
events, plant and animal diseases, or other unforeseen circumstances that reduce production.
Lack of living income or living wage can lead to negative impacts on the environment and people. For example, a lack
of living income can also be conducive to illegal clearing of forests or illicit farming or fishing activities in an attempt to
earn more. Farmers and fishers can also be pressed to cut production costs by lowering their workers’ wages or
relying on poor labor practices such as exploitation, illegal migrant labor, or child labor. Lack of living income also
limits the ability of producers to invest in more efficient or sustainable production methods, which can further impact
their access to markets, income, and livelihoods (see topic 13.22 Economic inclusion).
57 GRI 13: Agriculture, Aquaculture and Fishing Sectors 2022
Reporting on living income and living wage
If the organization has determined living income and living wage to be a material topic, this sub-section lists the
disclosures identified as relevant for reporting on the topic by the agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing sectors.
STANDARD DISCLOSURE SECTOR
STANDARD
REF. NO.
Management of the topic
GRI 3: Material Disclosure 3-3 Management of material topics 13.21.1
Topics 2021
Additional sector recommendations
• Describe commitments related to providing a living income or paying a living
wage.
• Describe the methodology used for defining living income or living wage at
significant locations of operation and report whether this has involved
consultation with and participation of local stakeholders, including trade
unions and employer organizations.
• Describe how sourcing, pricing, and remuneration policies take living income
or living wage into account, including how living income is considered when
setting product prices.
• Describe the tools and systems used to monitor wages paid by suppliers.
Additional sector disclosures
Report the percentage of employees and workers who are not employees and whose work is 13.21.2
controlled covered by collective bargaining agreements that have terms related to wage levels and
frequency of wage payments at significant locations of operation.
Report the percentage of employees and workers who are not employees and whose work is 13.21.3
controlled paid above living wage, with a breakdown by gender
References and resources
The authoritative instruments and references used in developing this topic, as well as resources that may be helpful
for reporting on living income and living wage by the agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing sectors are listed in the
Bibliography.
58 GRI 13: Agriculture, Aquaculture and Fishing Sectors 2022
Topic 13.22 Economic inclusion
Economic inclusion concerns an organization’s impacts on access to economic opportunities for local
communities and the productive potential of actual and possible suppliers. This topic covers an organization’s
approach to economic inclusion of farmers and fishers, and their communities.
Small-scale producers – farmers and fishers, who grow, harvest, and supply products to organizations – are key
suppliers for the agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing sectors. There are 500 million smallholder farmers in the
agriculture sector, and in some regions, they produce up to 80% of all agricultural products [364]. Similarly, small
fishing vessels represent over 80% of the world’s total fishing fleet (see references [360] and [370]). However, many
of these farmers and fishers live in poor and rural areas, where communities face economic and social exclusion due
to inadequate infrastructure, lack of technology, limited production capacity, or limited access to markets and finance
[368].
Farmers' and fishers' productivity and resilience can be strengthened by sustained demand, capital provision, skill-
building, and enhanced access to markets. For example, contract farming – when an organization enters into
forwarding agreements to purchase products – can enhance farmers' financial certainty and market access.
Organizations may also commit to providing production inputs as part of these agreements, such as seeds and
fertilizers. However, contract farming agreements need to be executed in a way to prevent debt or dependency.
Agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing organizations can also contribute to the capacity of small-scale producers by
reducing barriers to market and connecting them to financial services and productive assets. Organizations may also
facilitate the formalization and development of business enterprises by farmers and fishers. This includes assistance
with registering land titles, business registration, and formal labor relations. Organizations can also encourage
cooperatives that provide collective benefits.
Economic inclusion can also be encouraged when organizations select suppliers by, for example, prioritizing those
owned by women or members of other vulnerable groups. Empowering women is a key driver for economic inclusion
in rural areas, as women are more likely to be in poverty and face economic constraints at the individual or household
levels (see topic 13.15 Non-discrimination and equal opportunity).
The development of infrastructure that extends beyond the scope of the organization’s operations, such as roads,
ports, or canals, can facilitate access to transportation, energy, sanitation, and other services in otherwise unserved
areas. Organizations may also contribute to community investments and stimulate economic activity in the local area,
providing economic opportunities for those not active in the local economy.
Empowering farmers and fishers can help them achieve high productivity and contribute to greater food security,
responding to current and future needs of sustainable food production (see topic 13.9 Food security).
59 GRI 13: Agriculture, Aquaculture and Fishing Sectors 2022
Reporting on economic inclusion
If the organization has determined economic inclusion to be a material topic, this sub-section lists the disclosures
identified as relevant for reporting on the topic by the agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing sectors.
STANDARD DISCLOSURE SECTOR
STANDARD
REF. NO.
Management of the topic
GRI 3: Material Disclosure 3-3 Management of material topics 13.22.1
Topics 2021
Additional sector recommendations
• Describe actions taken to support the economic inclusion of farmers and
fishers, and their communities (e.g., direct support through investments,
partnerships, or training) and the effectiveness of these actions (e.g.,
increased yields or productivity, number of farmers or fishers reached,
percentage of products sourced from small producers).
• Describe actions taken to identify and adjust the sourcing practices of the
organization that cause or contribute to negative impacts on economic
inclusion of farmers and fishers in the supply chain.33
Topic Standard disclosures
GRI 201: Disclosure 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 13.22.2
Economic
Performance
2016
GRI 203: Indirect Disclosure 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported 13.22.3
Economic
Disclosure 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts 13.22.4
Impacts 2016
References and resources
GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016 lists authoritative intergovernmental instruments and additional references
relevant to reporting on this topic.
The additional authoritative instruments and references used in developing this topic, as well as resources that may
be helpful for reporting on economic inclusion by the agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing sectors are listed in the
Bibliography.
33 These additional sector recommendations are based on the guidance to clause 1.1 in GRI 204: Procurement Practices 2016.
60 GRI 13: Agriculture, Aquaculture and Fishing Sectors 2022
Topic 13.23 Supply chain traceability
Traceability is the ability to trace the source, origin, or production conditions of raw materials and final products.
Traceability provides a way to identify and prevent potential negative impacts linked to an organization’s
products. This topic covers an organization’s approach to supply chain traceability.
Agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing organizations may source their products and procure inputs, such as animal
feed, from multiple farms, mills, plantations, waters, or hatcheries. Production conditions can differ highly across
countries. The sectors’ supply chains can be complex, crossing international borders and aggregating products from
multiple locations. Products can be associated with diverse negative impacts on the economy, environment, and
people and involve informal operations, where impacts often go undocumented.
Traceability mechanisms enable organizations to identify the origins of their products and actors in their supply chain.
These mechanisms can help localize and withdraw non-conforming products. For example, traceability allows for
urgent product recalls over food safety concerns and outbreaks of disease in animals.
Feed traceability in animal production and aquaculture is a key concern. The sourcing of animal and fish feed can
contribute to negative impacts on biodiversity and natural ecosystems. Aquaculture feed can rely on depleted fish
stocks, further driving overfishing (see topic 13.3 Biodiversity). Plant-based feed can be associated with natural
ecosystem conversion. For example, almost 80% of the world’s soybean crop is used as animal feed and soybean
farming is associated with deforestation in many areas [379] (see topic 13.4 Natural ecosystem conversion).
In the fishing sector, traceability mechanisms serve to ensure fishery resources' sustainability and the legality of
fishing operations. Identifying the source of fishing products requires increased scrutiny because of the
transshipment of catch, re-exportation, and numerous processing stages.
Box 6. Illegal, unreported, and unregulated (IUU) fishing
Some estimates indicate that globally up to 30% of sourced fish comes from IUU fishing, which includes fishing
without a license, exceeding fishing quotas, capturing undersized fish or endangered species, and using
unauthorized fishing gear [377]. It also includes fishing in restricted or protected marine areas or inshore waters
reserved for local fishers and unauthorized transfer of catch from one vessel to another.
IUU fishing is a threat to marine ecosystems and biodiversity because of its potential impacts on the sustainability
of fishing stocks. Traceability mechanisms are a fundamental tool against IUU fishing. Certified fisheries, fisheries
improvement projects,34 or robust monitoring, control, and surveillance (MCS) measures can also provide some
level of assurance against IUU fishing.
Traceability can also facilitate the transparency of value created at each stage of the value chain and how the value is
distributed among producers. This information is relevant for establishing purchasing prices for agriculture,
aquaculture, and fishing products that provide for living income or living wage to workers, farmers, and fishers (see
also topic 13.21 Living income and living wage).
Tracing the origins of products can be challenging, and traceability across the agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing
sectors is unevenly implemented. Organizations that source agriculture, aquaculture, or fishing products might,
depending on the product, be able to trace each to its source or a specific geographic area. Suppliers may also have
certifications and assurance schemes by third parties that link their products to production sites upholding certain
environmental, economic, and social performance standards.
34 Improvement projects focus on improving production practices and the way impacts on species and ecosystems are managed. Improvement
projects are often undertaken with the intention of undergoing an assessment as part of a certification process that ensures conformity with certain
environmental, economic, and social performance standards in the future.
61 GRI 13: Agriculture, Aquaculture and Fishing Sectors 2022
Reporting on supply chain traceability
If the organization has determined supply chain traceability to be a material topic, this sub-section lists the
disclosures identified as relevant for reporting on the topic by the agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing sectors.
STANDARD DISCLOSURE SECTOR
STANDARD
REF. NO.
Management of the topic
GRI 3: Material Disclosure 3-3 Management of material topics 13.23.1
Topics 2021
Additional sector recommendations
• Describe the rationale and methodology for tracing the source, origin, or
production conditions of the products sourced by the organization (such as raw
materials and production inputs purchased).35
The following additional sector recommendations are for organizations in the
fishing sector:
• Describe policies, assurance schemes, and risk assessment processes
related to illegal, unreported, and unregulated (IUU) fishing.
• List initiatives and partnerships intended to help address illegal, unreported,
and unregulated (IUU) fishing that the organization participates in.
Additional sector disclosures
Describe the level of traceability in place for each product sourced, for example, whether the product 13.23.2
can be traced to the national, regional, or local level, or a specific point of origin (e.g., farms,
hatcheries, and feed mill levels).36
Report the percentage of sourced volume37 certified to internationally recognized standards that trace 13.23.3
the path of products through the supply chain, by product and list these standards.38
Describe improvement projects to get suppliers certified to internationally recognized standards that 13.23.4
trace the path of products through the supply chain to ensure that all sourced volume is certified.
References and resources
The references used in developing this topic, as well as resources that may be helpful for reporting on supply chain
traceability by the agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing sectors are listed in the Bibliography.
35 This additional sector recommendation is based on the guidance to clause 1.1 in GRI 204: Procurement Practices 2016.
36 A description of the organization’s supply chain is reported under Disclosure 2-6 Activities, value chain and other business relationships in GRI 2:
General Disclosures 2021.
37 Sourced volume refers to the total volume of products sourced by the organization from suppliers.
38 Certifications or standards that trace the path of products through the supply chain are sometimes referred to as chain of custody (CoC). CoC is the
chronological documentation or document trail that records the sequence of custody, control, transfer, analysis, and disposition of products.
62 GRI 13: Agriculture, Aquaculture and Fishing Sectors 2022
Topic 13.24 Public policy
An organization can participate in public policy development, directly or through an intermediary organization, by
means of lobbying or making financial or in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, or causes. While an
organization can encourage public policy development that benefits society, participation can also be associated
with corruption, bribery, undue influence, or an imbalanced representation of the organization’s interests. This
topic covers an organization’s approach to public policy advocacy and the impacts that can result from an
organization's influence.
Agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing organizations can potentially influence local, national, or international policy
concerning environmental regulations, access to natural resources, labor laws, food safety, public health, and animal
welfare.
Advocacy or lobbying by the agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing sectors may target policies that limit the sectors'
environmental impact; government price setting and subsidies; or mandatory quotas on products. In agriculture,
documented cases show that large agricultural organizations advocated for postponing legal requirements for
rotating crops and avoiding penalties for inadequate land use. Agriculture lobby activities can also target approvals of
genetically modified organisms (GMOs) and objectives to decrease the use of pesticides, fertilizers, and animal
antibiotics. Lobbying can also affect farmers’ access to technology and genetic resources, such as seeds.
In animal production, lobbying can inhibit public policy development that deals with livestock’s negative impacts on
the environment. Livestock products – particularly dairy and beef – are heavily subsidized in many countries due to
livestock organizations' influence. Subsidies enabled expressly through lobbying can facilitate the supply of animal
products at prices that do not cover the costs to the environment. Lobbying can also prevent stricter standards of
animal welfare.
In fishing, organizations can influence allowable catch and quota regulations, including international trade
negotiations and inter-country agreements on fishing quotas. Locally, lobbying can sway attempts to limit catch in
order to preserve fishing stocks (see also topic 13.26 Anti-corruption).
63 GRI 13: Agriculture, Aquaculture and Fishing Sectors 2022
Reporting on public policy
If the organization has determined public policy to be a material topic, this sub-section lists the disclosures identified
as relevant for reporting on the topic by the agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing sectors.
STANDARD DISCLOSURE SECTOR
STANDARD
REF. NO.
Management of the topic
GRI 3: Material Disclosure 3-3 Management of material topics 13.24.1
Topics 2021
Topic Standard disclosures
GRI 415: Public Disclosure 415-1 Political contributions 13.24.2
Policy 2016
References and resources
GRI 415: Public Policy 2016 lists authoritative intergovernmental instruments relevant to reporting on this topic.
The additional references used in developing this topic, as well as resources that may be helpful for reporting on
public policy by the agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing sectors are listed in the Bibliography.
64 GRI 13: Agriculture, Aquaculture and Fishing Sectors 2022
Topic 13.25 Anti-competitive behavior
Anti-competitive behavior refers to actions by an organization that can result in collusion with potential
competitors, abuse of dominant market position or exclusion of potential competitors, thereby limiting the effects
of market competition. This can include fixing prices or coordinating bids, creating market or output restrictions,
imposing geographic quotas, and allocating customers, suppliers, geographic areas, or product lines. This topic
covers impacts as a result of anti-competitive behavior.
Many agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing products are purchased from producers and traded by a limited number of
organizations. In situations of limited market options, traders and buyers can exert significant market power.
Anti-competitive agreements between agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing organizations can lead to purchasing
prices for products being set below those in a competitive market and restrictions on the product volumes. Many
producers in these sectors are smallholder farmers and small-scale fishers, often working in the informal sector and
facing substantial barriers to accessing markets (see also topic 13.22 Economic inclusion). Large organizations that
source supplies from small producers can take advantage of information asymmetry and market fragmentation to
limit their choices of whom to supply.
Anti-competitive practices may render small producers in these sectors unable to cover their costs, achieve living
income, or pay wages to their workers, resulting in economic exclusion and risk to livelihoods (see topic 13.21 Living
income and living wage). Other actions that purposely limit the effects of market competition can also cause small
producers to lose their independence and be pressured into becoming subsidiaries of large multinational
organizations. In some parts of the sectors, cartels have caused the exclusion of small producers from international
markets.
Large cooperatives, commonly found in the sectors, can affect market competition by requiring farmers and fishers to
sell their products exclusively through them. While such arrangements can benefit producers, they can also pose anti-
competitive concerns by limiting consumers’ choices in cases where they represent a major share of the sector’s
productive capacity.
65 GRI 13: Agriculture, Aquaculture and Fishing Sectors 2022
Reporting on anti-competitive behavior
If the organization has determined anti-competitive behavior to be a material topic, this sub-section lists the
disclosures identified as relevant for reporting on the topic by the agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing sectors.
STANDARD DISCLOSURE SECTOR
STANDARD
REF. NO.
Management of the topic
GRI 3: Material Disclosure 3-3 Management of material topics 13.25.1
Topics 2021
Topic Standard disclosures
GRI 206: Anti- Disclosure 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and 13.25.2
competitive monopoly practices
Behavior 2016
References and resources
GRI 206: Anti-competitive Behavior 2016 lists authoritative intergovernmental instruments.
The additional references used in developing this topic, as well as resources that may be helpful for reporting on anti-
competitive behavior by the agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing sectors are listed in the Bibliography.
66 GRI 13: Agriculture, Aquaculture and Fishing Sectors 2022
Topic 13.26 Anti-corruption
Anti-corruption refers to how an organization manages the potential of being involved with corruption. Corruption
is practices such as bribery, facilitation payments, fraud, extortion, collusion, money laundering, or the offer or
receipt of an inducement to do something dishonest or illegal. This topic covers the potential for corruption to
occur and the related impacts.
Corruption in the agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing sectors can erode the capacity of governments to limit
practices, such as deforestation and overfishing. Corruption also increases the likelihood of potential negative
impacts on workers and communities and reduces government revenues. Organizations that engage in corruption
can have an unfair advantage in competitive markets.
In the agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing sectors, corruption may be related to the use of land and other natural
resources regulated by government agencies. It can, for example, take the form of bribes paid to officials to register
land, acquire land information, or obtain permits to establish an operation. This can affect rightsholders and lead to
the displacement of communities, particularly in areas without secure land tenure (see also topic 13.13 Land and
resource rights).
Other forms of corruption can also involve the undue benefit from political reforms and land transactions, such as
privatizing state-owned land, approving zoning plans, and land expropriation. These practices often ignore legal
mechanisms and cause impacts on people and the environment.
Corruption in the sectors may include inducing officials to ignore illegal farming or fishing operations, leading to the
loss of natural ecosystems when land is cleared. Corrupt practices in fishing can facilitate access agreements
between organizations and officials managing fishing resources, which potentially result in unsustainable levels of
fishing.
Corrupt practices can also allow for illegal, unreported, and unregulated fishing (IUU) and exceeding quotas,
undermining stocks' sustainability. Fishers themselves might be involved in corruption to increase catch quantities.
Records of type or volume of catch may be falsified, or authorities may be bribed to ignore or certify false records.
Operating fishing vessels under a flag of convenience or an unknown flag can also be associated with corruption
when intended to bypass countries’ legal restrictions.
67 GRI 13: Agriculture, Aquaculture and Fishing Sectors 2022
Reporting on anti-corruption
If the organization has determined anti-corruption to be a material topic, this sub-section lists the disclosures
identified as relevant for reporting on the topic by the agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing sectors.
STANDARD DISCLOSURE SECTOR
STANDARD
REF. NO.
Management of the topic
GRI 3: Material Disclosure 3-3 Management of material topics 13.26.1
Topics 2021
Topic Standard disclosures
GRI 205: Anti- Disclosure 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 13.26.2
corruption 2016
Disclosure 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and 13.26.3
procedures
Disclosure 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 13.26.4
References and resources
GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016 lists authoritative intergovernmental instruments and additional references relevant to
reporting on this topic.
The additional references used in developing this topic, as well as resources that may be helpful for reporting on anti-
corruption by the agriculture, aquaculture, and fishing sectors are listed in the Bibliography.
68 GRI 13: Agriculture, Aquaculture and Fishing Sectors 2022
Glossary
This glossary provides definitions for terms used in this Standard. The organization is required to apply these
definitions when using the GRI Standards.
The definitions included in this glossary may contain terms that are further defined in the complete GRI Standards
Glossary. All defined terms are underlined. If a term is not defined in this glossary or in the complete GRI Standards
Glossary, definitions that are commonly used and understood apply.
anti-competitive behavior
A
action of the organization or employees that can result in collusion with potential competitors,
with the purpose of limiting the effects of market competition
Examples: allocating customers, suppliers, geographic areas, and product lines; coordinating
bids; creating market or output restrictions; fixing prices; imposing geographic
quotas
area of high biodiversity value
area not subject to legal protection, but recognized for important biodiversity features by a
number of governmental and non-governmental organizations
Note 1: Areas of high biodiversity value include habitats that are a priority for conservation,
which are often defined in National Biodiversity Strategies and Action Plans
prepared under the United Nations (UN) Convention, ‘Convention on Biological
Diversity’, 1992.
Note 2: Several international conservation organizations have identified particular areas of
high biodiversity value.
area protected
area that is protected from any harm during operational activities, and where the environment
remains in its original state with a healthy and functioning ecosystem
basic salary
B
fixed, minimum amount paid to an employee for performing his or her duties
Note: Basic salary excludes any additional remuneration, such as payments for overtime
working or bonuses.
benefit
direct benefit provided in the form of financial contributions, care paid for by the organization, or
the reimbursement of expenses borne by the employee
Note: Redundancy payments over and above legal minimums, lay-off pay, extra
employment injury benefit, survivors’ benefits, and extra paid holiday entitlements
can also be included as a benefit.
business partner
entity with which the organization has some form of direct and formal engagement for the
purpose of meeting its business objectives
Source: Shift and Mazars LLP, UN Guiding Principles Reporting Framework, 2015; modified
Examples: affiliates, business-to-business customers, clients, first-tier suppliers, franchisees,
joint venture partners, investee companies in which the organization has a
shareholding position
Note: Business partners do not include subsidiaries and affiliates that the organization
controls.
business relationships
relationships that the organization has with business partners, with entities in its value chain
including those beyond the first tier, and with any other entities directly linked to its operations,
products, or services
69 GRI 13: Agriculture, Aquaculture and Fishing Sectors 2022
Source: United Nations (UN), Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights:
Implementing the United Nations “Protect, Respect and Remedy” Framework, 2011;
modified
Note: Examples of other entities directly linked to the organization’s operations, products,
or services are a non-governmental organization with which the organization
delivers support to a local community or state security forces that protect the
organization’s facilities.
carbon dioxide (CO2) equivalent *
C
measure used to compare the emissions from various types of greenhouse gas (GHG)
based on their global warming potential (GWP)
Note: The CO equivalent for a gas is determined by multiplying the metric tons of the gas
2
by the associated GWP.
* Please note this term will be updated following the effective date of GRI 102: Climate Change
2025 and GRI 103: Energy 2025, as of 1 January 2027. Please see GRI 102/103 for the updated
term.
catchment
area of land from which all surface runoff and subsurface water flows through a sequence of
streams, rivers, aquifers, and lakes into the sea or another outlet at a single river mouth,
estuary, or delta
Source: Alliance for Water Stewardship (AWS), AWS International Water Stewardship
Standard, Version 1.0, 2014; modified
Note: Catchments include associated groundwater areas and might include portions of
waterbodies (such as lakes or rivers). In different parts of the world, catchments
are also referred to as ‘watersheds’ or ‘basins’ (or sub-basins).
child
person under the age of 15 years, or under the age of completion of compulsory schooling,
whichever is higher
Note 1: Exceptions can occur in certain countries where economies and educational
facilities are insufficiently developed, and a minimum age of 14 years applies.
These countries of exception are specified by the International Labour Organization
(ILO) in response to a special application by the country concerned and in
consultation with representative organizations of employers and workers.
Note 2: The ILO Minimum Age Convention, 1973, (No. 138), refers to both child labor and
young workers.
circularity measures
measures taken to retain the value of products, materials, and resources and redirect them
back to use for as long as possible with the lowest carbon and resource footprint possible, such
that fewer raw materials and resources are extracted and waste generation is prevented
close call
work-related incident where no injury or ill health occurs, but which has the potential to cause
these
Source: International Organization for Standardization. ISO 45001:2018. Occupational health
and safety management systems — Requirements with guidance for use. Geneva:
ISO, 2018; modified
Note: A ‘close call’ might also be referred to as a ‘near-miss’ or ‘near-hit’.
collective bargaining
all negotiations that take place between one or more employers or employers' organizations, on
the one hand, and one or more workers' organizations (e.g., trade unions), on the other, for
determining working conditions and terms of employment or for regulating relations between
70 GRI 13: Agriculture, Aquaculture and Fishing Sectors 2022
employers and workers
Source: International Labour Organization (ILO), Collective Bargaining Convention, 1981
(No. 154); modified
corruption
‘abuse of entrusted power for private gain’, which can be instigated by individuals or
organizations
Source: Transparency International, Business Principles for Countering Bribery, 2011
Note: Corruption includes practices such as bribery, facilitation payments, fraud, extortion,
collusion, and money laundering. It also includes an offer or receipt of any gift, loan,
fee, reward, or other advantage to or from any person as an inducement to do
something that is dishonest, illegal, or a breach of trust in the conduct of the
enterprise’s business. This can include cash or in-kind benefits, such as free
goods, gifts, and holidays, or special personal services provided for the purpose of
an improper advantage, or that can result in moral pressure to receive such an
advantage.
direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions *
D
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from sources that are owned or controlled by the
organization
Examples: CO emissions from fuel consumption
2
Note: A GHG source is any physical unit or process that releases GHG into the
atmosphere.
* Please note this term will be updated following the effective date of GRI 102: Climate Change
2025 and GRI 103: Energy 2025, as of 1 January 2027. Please see GRI 102/103 for the updated
term.
discrimination
act and result of treating persons unequally by imposing unequal burdens or denying benefits
instead of treating each person fairly on the basis of individual merit
Note: Discrimination can also include harassment, defined as a course of comments or
actions that are unwelcome, or should reasonably be known to be unwelcome, to
the person towards whom they are addressed.
disposal
any operation which is not recovery, even where the operation has as a secondary consequence
the recovery of energy
Source: European Union (EU), Waste Framework Directive, 2008 (Directive 2008/98/EC)
Note: Disposal is the end-of-life management of discarded products, materials, and
resources in a sink or through a chemical or thermal transformation that makes
these products, materials, and resources unavailable for further use.
effluent
E
treated or untreated wastewater that is discharged
Source: Alliance for Water Stewardship (AWS), AWS International Water Stewardship
Standard, Version 1.0, 2014
employee
individual who is in an employment relationship with the organization according to national law
or practice
energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions *
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions that result from the generation of purchased or acquired
electricity, heating, cooling, and steam consumed by the organization
71 GRI 13: Agriculture, Aquaculture and Fishing Sectors 2022
* Please note this term will be updated following the effective date of GRI 102: Climate Change
2025 and GRI 103: Energy 2025, as of 1 January 2027. Please see GRI 102/103 for the updated
term.
exposure
quantity of time spent at or the nature of contact with certain environments that possess various
degrees and kinds of hazard, or proximity to a condition that might cause injury or ill health (e.g.,
chemicals, radiation, high pressure, noise, fire, explosives)
forced or compulsory labor
F
all work and service that is exacted from any person under the menace of any penalty and for
which the said person has not offered herself or himself voluntarily
Source: International Labour Organization (ILO), Forced Labour Convention, 1930 (No. 29);
modified
Note 1: The most extreme examples of forced or compulsory labor are slave labor and
bonded labor, but debts can also be used as a means of maintaining workers in a
state of forced labor.
Note 2: Indicators of forced labor include withholding identity papers, requiring compulsory
deposits, and compelling workers, under threat of firing, to work extra hours to
which they have not previously agreed.
freedom of association
right of employers and workers to form, to join and to run their own organizations without prior
authorization or interference by the state or any other entity
freshwater
water with concentration of total dissolved solids equal to or below 1,000 mg/L
Source: Environmental management — Water footprint — Principles, requirements and
guidelines. Geneva: ISO, 2014; modified
United States Geological Survey (USGS), Water Science Glossary of Terms,
water.usgs.gov/edu/dictionary.html, accessed on 1 June 2018; modified
World Health Organization (WHO), Guidelines for Drinking-water Quality, 2017;
modified
global warming potential (GWP) *
G
value describing the radiative forcing impact of one unit of a given greenhouse gas
(GHG) relative to one unit of CO over a given period of time
2
Note: GWP values convert GHG emissions data for non-CO gases into units of CO2
2
equivalent.
* Please note this term will be updated following the effective date of GRI 102: Climate Change
2025 and GRI 103: Energy 2025, as of 1 January 2027. Please see GRI 102/103 for the updated
term.
governance body
formalized group of individuals responsible for the strategic guidance of the organization, the
effective monitoring of management, and the accountability of management to the broader
organization and its stakeholders
greenhouse gas (GHG) *
gas that contributes to the greenhouse effect by absorbing infrared radiation
* Please note this term will be updated following the effective date of GRI 102: Climate Change
2025 and GRI 103: Energy 2025, as of 1 January 2027. Please see GRI 102/103 for the updated
term.
grievance
perceived injustice evoking an individual’s or a group’s sense of entitlement, which may be
based on law, contract, explicit or implicit promises, customary practice, or general notions of
fairness of aggrieved communities
72 GRI 13: Agriculture, Aquaculture and Fishing Sectors 2022
Source: United Nations (UN), Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights:
Implementing the United Nations “Protect, Respect and Remedy” Framework, 2011
grievance mechanism
routinized process through which grievances can be raised and remedy can be sought
Source: United Nations (UN), Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights:
Implementing the United Nations “Protect, Respect and Remedy” Framework, 2011;
modified
Note: See Guidance to Disclosure 2-25 in GRI 2: General Disclosures 2021 for more
information on ‘grievance mechanism’.
groundwater
water that is being held in, and that can be recovered from, an underground formation
Source: International Organization for Standardization. ISO 14046:2014. Environmental
management — Water footprint — Principles, requirements and guidelines. Geneva:
ISO, 2014; modified
hazardous waste
H
waste that possesses any of the characteristics contained in Annex III of the Basel Convention,
or that is considered to be hazardous by national legislation
Source: United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), Basel Convention on the Control
of Transboundary Movements of Hazardous Wastes and Their Disposal, 1989
human rights
rights inherent to all human beings, which include, at a minimum, the rights set out in the United
Nations (UN) International Bill of Human Rights and the principles concerning fundamental
rights set out in the International Labour Organization (ILO) Declaration on Fundamental
Principles and Rights at Work
Source: United Nations (UN), Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights:
Implementing the United Nations “Protect, Respect and Remedy” Framework, 2011;
modified
Note: See Guidance to 2-23-b-i in GRI 2: General Disclosures 2021 for more information
on ‘human rights’.
impact
I
effect the organization has or could have on the economy, environment, and people, including on
their human rights, which in turn can indicate its contribution (negative or positive) to sustainable
development
Note 1: Impacts can be actual or potential, negative or positive, short-term or long-term,
intended or unintended, and reversible or irreversible.
Note 2: See section 2.1 in GRI 1: Foundation 2021 for more information on ‘impact’.
Indigenous Peoples
Indigenous Peoples are generally identified as:
• tribal peoples in independent countries whose social, cultural and economic conditions
distinguish them from other sections of the national community, and whose status is
regulated wholly or partially by their own customs or traditions or by special laws or
regulations;
• peoples in independent countries who are regarded as indigenous on account of their
descent from the populations which inhabited the country, or a geographical region to which
the country belongs, at the time of conquest or colonization or the establishment of present
state boundaries and who, irrespective of their legal status, retain some or all of their own
social, economic, cultural and political institutions.
Source: International Labour Organization (ILO), Indigenous and Tribal Peoples Convention,
1989 (No. 169)
73 GRI 13: Agriculture, Aquaculture and Fishing Sectors 2022
infrastructure
facilities built primarily to provide a public service or good rather than a commercial purpose,
and from which the organization does not seek to gain direct economic benefit
Examples: hospitals, roads, schools, water supply facilities
local community
L
individuals or groups of individuals living or working in areas that are affected or that could be
affected by the organization’s activities
Note: The local community can range from those living adjacent to the organization’s
operations to those living at a distance.
material topics
M
topics that represent the organization’s most significant impacts on the economy, environment,
and people, including impacts on their human rights
Note: See section 2.2 in GRI 1: Foundation 2021 and section 1 in GRI 3: Material Topics
2021 for more information on ‘material topics’.
mitigation
action(s) taken to reduce the extent of a negative impact
Source: United Nations (UN), The Corporate Responsibility to Respect Human Rights: An
Interpretive Guide, 2012; modified
Note: The mitigation of an actual negative impact refers to actions taken to reduce the
severity of the negative impact that has occurred, with any residual impact needing
remediation. The mitigation of a potential negative impact refers to actions taken to
reduce the likelihood of the negative impact occurring.
other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions *
O
indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions not included in energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG
emissions that occur outside of the organization, including both upstream and downstream
emissions
* Please note this term will be updated following the effective date of GRI 102: Climate Change
2025 and GRI 103: Energy 2025, as of 1 January 2027. Please see GRI 102/103 for the updated
term.
preparation for reuse
P
checking, cleaning, or repairing operations, by which products or components of products that
have become waste are prepared to be put to use for the same purpose for which they were
conceived
Source: European Union (EU), Waste Framework Directive, 2008 (Directive 2008/98/EC);
modified
recovery
R
operation wherein products, components of products, or materials that have become waste are
prepared to fulfill a purpose in place of new products, components, or materials that would
otherwise have been used for that purpose
Source: United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), Basel Convention on the Control
of Transboundary Movements of Hazardous Wastes and Their Disposal, 1989;
modified
Examples: preparation for reuse, recycling
Note: In the context of waste reporting, recovery operations do not include energy recovery.
recycling
reprocessing of products or components of products that have become waste, to make new
materials
74 GRI 13: Agriculture, Aquaculture and Fishing Sectors 2022
Sources: United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), Basel Convention on the Control
of Transboundary Movements of Hazardous Wastes and Their Disposal, 1989;
modified
remedy / remediation
means to counteract or make good a negative impact or provision of remedy
Source: United Nations (UN), The Corporate Responsibility to Respect Human Rights: An
Interpretive Guide, 2012; modified
Examples: apologies, financial or non-financial compensation, prevention of harm through
injunctions or guarantees of non-repetition, punitive sanctions (whether criminal or
administrative, such as fines), restitution, restoration, rehabilitation
remuneration
basic salary plus additional amounts paid to a worker
Note: Examples of additional amounts paid to a worker can include those based on years
of service, bonuses including cash and equity such as stocks and shares, benefit
payments, overtime, time owed, and any additional allowances, such as
transportation, living and childcare allowances.
reporting period
specific time period covered by the reported information
Examples: fiscal year, calendar year
runoff
part of precipitation that flows towards a river on the ground surface (i.e., surface runoff) or within
the soil (i.e., subsurface flow)
Source: United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO),
UNESCO International Glossary of Hydrology, 2012; modified
seawater
S
water in a sea or in an ocean
Source: International Organization for Standardization. ISO 14046:2014. Environmental
management — Water footprint — Principles, requirements and guidelines. Geneva:
ISO, 2014; modified
severity (of an impact)
The severity of an actual or potential negative impact is determined by its scale (i.e., how grave
the impact is), scope (i.e., how widespread the impact is), and irremediable character (how hard
it is to counteract or make good the resulting harm).
Source: Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), OECD Due
Diligence Guidance for Responsible Business Conduct, 2018; modified
United Nations (UN), The Corporate Responsibility to Respect Human Rights: An
Interpretive Guide, 2012; modified
Note: See section 1 in GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 for more information on ‘severity’.
stakeholder
individual or group that has an interest that is affected or could be affected by the organization’s
activities
Source: Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), OECD Due
Diligence Guidance for Responsible Business Conduct, 2018; modified
Examples: business partners, civil society organizations, consumers, customers, employees
and other workers, governments, local communities, non-governmental
organizations, shareholders and other investors, suppliers, trade unions,
vulnerable groups
75 GRI 13: Agriculture, Aquaculture and Fishing Sectors 2022
Note: See section 2.4 in GRI 1: Foundation 2021 for more information on ‘stakeholder’.
supplier
entity upstream from the organization (i.e., in the organization’s supply chain), which provides a
product or service that is used in the development of the organization’s own products or services
Examples: brokers, consultants, contractors, distributors, franchisees, home workers,
independent contractors, licensees, manufacturers, primary producers, sub-
contractors, wholesalers
Note: A supplier can have a direct business relationship with the organization (often
referred to as a first-tier supplier) or an indirect business relationship.
supply chain
range of activities carried out by entities upstream from the organization, which provide products
or services that are used in the development of the organization’s own products or services
surface water
water that occurs naturally on the Earth’s surface in ice sheets, ice caps, glaciers, icebergs,
bogs, ponds, lakes, rivers, and streams
Source: CDP, CDP Water Security Reporting Guidance, 2018; modified
sustainable development / sustainability
development that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future
generations to meet their own needs
Source: World Commission on Environment and Development, Our Common Future, 1987
Note: The terms ‘sustainability’ and ‘sustainable development’ are used interchangeably
in the GRI Standards.
third-party water
T
municipal water suppliers and municipal wastewater treatment plants, public or private utilities,
and other organizations involved in the provision, transport, treatment, disposal, or use of water
and effluent
value chain
V
range of activities carried out by the organization, and by entities upstream and downstream
from the organization, to bring the organization’s products or services from their conception to
their end use
Note 1: Entities upstream from the organization (e.g., suppliers) provide products or
services that are used in the development of the organization’s own products or
services. Entities downstream from the organization (e.g., distributors, customers)
receive products or services from the organization.
Note 2: The value chain includes the supply chain.
vulnerable group
group of individuals with a specific condition or characteristic (e.g., economic, physical, political,
social) that could experience negative impacts as a result of the organization’s activities more
severely than the general population
Examples: children and youth; elderly persons; ex-combatants; HIV/AIDS-affected households;
human rights defenders; Indigenous Peoples; internally displaced persons;
migrant workers and their families; national or ethnic, religious and linguistic
minorities; persons who might be discriminated against based on their sexual
orientation, gender identity, gender expression, or sex characteristics (e.g., lesbian,
gay, bisexual, transgender, intersex); persons with disabilities; refugees or
returning refugees; women
Note: Vulnerabilities and impacts can differ by gender.
76 GRI 13: Agriculture, Aquaculture and Fishing Sectors 2022
waste
W
anything that the holder discards, intends to discard, or is required to discard
Source: United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), Basel Convention on the Control
of Transboundary Movements of Hazardous Wastes and Their Disposal, 1989
Note 1: Waste can be defined according to the national legislation at the point of
generation.
Note 2: A holder can be the reporting organization, an entity in the organization’s value
chain upstream or downstream (e.g., supplier or consumer), or a waste
management organization, among others.
water consumption
sum of all water that has been withdrawn and incorporated into products, used in the production
of crops or generated as waste, has evaporated, transpired, or been consumed by humans or
livestock, or is polluted to the point of being unusable by other users, and is therefore not
released back to surface water, groundwater, seawater, or a third party over the course of the
reporting period
Source: CDP, CDP Water Security Reporting Guidance, 2018; modified
Note: Water consumption includes water that has been stored during the reporting period
for use or discharge in a subsequent reporting period.
water withdrawal
sum of all water drawn from surface water, groundwater, seawater, or a third party for any use
over the course of the reporting period
work-related hazard
source or situation with the potential to cause injury or ill health
Source: International Labour Organization (ILO) Guidelines on Occupational Safety and
Health Management Systems, 2001; modified
International Organization for Standardization. ISO 45001:2018. Occupational health
and safety management systems — Requirements with guidance for use. Geneva:
ISO, 2018; modified
Definitions that are based on or come from the ISO 14046:2014 and ISO 45001:2018 standards
are reproduced with the permission of the International Organization for Standardization, ISO.
Copyright remains with ISO.
Note: Hazards can be:
• physical (e.g., radiation, temperature extremes, constant loud noise, spills on
floors or tripping hazards, unguarded machinery, faulty electrical equipment);
• ergonomic (e.g., improperly adjusted workstations and chairs, awkward
movements, vibration);
• chemical (e.g., exposure to solvents, carbon monoxide, flammable materials, or
pesticides);
• biological (e.g., exposure to blood and bodily fluids, fungi, bacteria, viruses, or
insect bites);
• psychosocial (e.g., verbal abuse, harassment, bullying);
• related to work-organization (e.g., excessive workload demands, shift work, long
hours, night work, workplace violence).
work-related incident
occurrence arising out of or in the course of work that could or does result in injury or ill health
Source: International Organization for Standardization. ISO 45001:2018. Occupational health
and safety management systems — Requirements with guidance for use. Geneva:
ISO, 2018; modified
Definitions that are based on or come from the ISO 14046:2014 and ISO 45001:2018 standards
are reproduced with the permission of the International Organization for Standardization, ISO.
Copyright remains with ISO.
77 GRI 13: Agriculture, Aquaculture and Fishing Sectors 2022
Note 1: Incidents might be due to, for example, electrical problems, explosion, fire; overflow,
overturning, leakage, flow; breakage, bursting, splitting; loss of control, slipping,
stumbling and falling; body movement without stress; body movement under/with
stress; shock, fright; workplace violence or harassment (e.g., sexual harassment).
Note 2: An incident that results in injury or ill health is often referred to as an ‘accident’. An
incident that has the potential to result in injury or ill health but where none occurs is
often referred to as a ‘close call', ‘near-miss’, or ‘near-hit’.
work-related injury or ill health
negative impacts on health arising from exposure to hazards at work
Source: International Labour Organization (ILO), Guidelines on Occupational Safety and
Health Management Systems, ILO-OSH 2001, 2001; modified
Note 1: ‘Ill health’ indicates damage to health and includes diseases, illnesses, and
disorders. The terms ‘disease’, ‘illness’, and ‘disorder’ are often used
interchangeably and refer to conditions with specific symptoms and diagnoses.
Note 2: Work-related injuries and ill health are those that arise from exposure to hazards at
work. Other types of incident can occur that are not connected with the work itself.
For example, the following incidents are not considered to be work related:
• a worker suffers a heart attack while at work that is unconnected with work;
• a worker driving to or from work is injured in a car accident (where driving is not
part of the work, and where the transport has not been organized by the
employer);
• a worker with epilepsy has a seizure at work that is unconnected with work.
Note 3: Traveling for work: Injuries and ill health that occur while a worker is traveling are
work related if, at the time of the injury or ill health, the worker was engaged in work
activities ‘in the interest of the employer’. Examples of such activities include
traveling to and from customer contacts; conducting job tasks; and entertaining or
being entertained to transact, discuss, or promote business (at the direction of the
employer).
Working at home: Injuries and ill health that occur when working at home are work
related if the injury or ill health occurs while the worker is performing work at home,
and the injury or ill health is directly related to the performance of work rather than
the general home environment or setting.
Mental illness: A mental illness is considered to be work related if it has been
notified voluntarily by the worker and is supported by an opinion from a licensed
healthcare professional with appropriate training and experience stating that the
illness is work related.
For more guidance on determining ‘work-relatedness’, see the United States
Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Determination of work-relatedness
1904.5, https://www.osha.gov/pls/ oshaweb/owadisp.show_document?
p_table=STANDARDS&p_id=9636, accessed on 1 June 2018.
Note 4: The terms ‘occupational’ and ‘work-related’ are often used interchangeably.
worker
person that performs work for the organization
Examples: employees, agency workers, apprentices, contractors, home workers, interns, self-
employed persons, sub-contractors, volunteers, and persons working for
organizations other than the reporting organization, such as for suppliers
Note: In the GRI Standards, in some cases, it is specified whether a particular subset of
workers is required to be used.
Bibliography
78 GRI 13: Agriculture, Aquaculture and Fishing Sectors 2022
Bibliography
Introduction
1. European Communities, Statistical classification of economic activities in the European Community, 2008.
2. Executive Office of the President, Office of Management and Budget (OMB), North American Industry
Classification System (NAICS), updated regularly.
3. FTSE Russell, ICB Structure: Taxonomy Overview, 2019.
4. S&P Dow Jones Indices and MSCI Inc., Revisions to the Global Industry Classification Standard (GICS®)
Structure, 2018.
5. Sustainable Accounting Standards Boards (SASB), Sustainable Industry Classification System,
https://www.sasb.org/find-your-industry/, accessed on 27 May 2021.
6. United Nations (UN), International Standard Industrial Classification of All Economic Activities, Revision 4, 2008.
Sector profile
Authoritative instruments:
7. United Nations General Assembly, Transforming our world: the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development,
2015.
Additional references:
8. Business for Social Responsibility, P. Nestor, Four Human Rights Issues Every Food and Agriculture Company
Needs to Understand, 2013.
9. Climate Watch, Historical GHG Emissions, https://www.climatewatchdata.org/ghg-emissions?
end_year=2016&amp;start_year=1990, accessed 4 February 2021.
10. European Commission, DG Maritime Affairs and Fisheries – Energy Efficiency, https://stecf.jrc.ec.europa.eu/web/
ee/home?p_p_auth=ippYeq6n&p_p_id=49&p_p_lifecycle=1&p_p_state=normal&p_p_mode=view&_49_struts_
action=%2Fmy_sites%2Fview&_49_groupId=12762&_49_privateLayout=false, accessed 26 April 2022.
11. Farm Animal Investment Risk & Return (FAIRR) Initiative, Factory Farming: Assessing Investment Risks, 2016.
12. Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), Codex Alimentarius, https://www.fao.org/fao-who-
codexalimentarius/en/, accessed 4 February 2021.
13. Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), Inclusive Business Models, 2015.
14. Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), Increasing the Resilience of Agriculture Livelihoods, 2016.
15. Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), Migration, Agriculture and Climate change – Reducing vulnerabilities
and enhancing resilience, 2017.
16. Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), Post-harvest processing, http://www.fao.org/3/a-au104e.pdf, accessed
9 February 2021.
17. Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), Storage, http://www.fao.org/3/t0522e/T0522E09.htm, accessed 9
February 2021.
18. Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), Sustainability Pathways: Smallholders and Family Farmers, 2012.
19. Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), The Right to Food, http://www.fao.org/right-to-food/en/, accessed 4
February 2021.
20. Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), World Food and Agriculture: Statistical Yearbook 2020, 2020.
21. International Labour Organization (ILO) and Walk Free Foundation, Global Estimates of Modern Slavery, 2017.
22. International Institute for Sustainable Development (IISD), Voluntary Sustainability Standards and Biodiversity:
Understanding the potential of agricultural standards for biodiversity protection, 2018.
23. International Labour Organization (ILO), Child labor in agriculture, https://www.ilo.org/ipec/areas/Agriculture/lang-
-en/index.htm, accessed 4 February 2021.
24. International Panel on Climate Change, Climate Change 2014: Mitigation of Climate Change, 2014.
25. International Panel on Climate Change, Sixth Assessment Report, Climate Change 2022: Mitigation of Climate
Change, the Working Group III contribution, 2022.
26. Intergovernmental Science-Policy Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services, Global assessment report on
Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services: Summary for policymakers, 2019.
27. North Sea Foundation, Seas at risk – The carbon footprint of fisheries, 2007.
79 GRI 13: Agriculture, Aquaculture and Fishing Sectors 2022
28. Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, Issues in focus: Right to Food,
https://www.ohchr.org/EN/Issues/Food/Pages/IssuesFocus.aspx, accessed 4 February 2021.
29. Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, Pesticides are ‘global human rights
concern’, say UN experts urging new treaty, https://www.ohchr.org/en/press-releases/2017/03/pesticides-are-
global-human-rights-concern-say-un-experts-urging-new-treaty, accessed 30 May 2022.
30. Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) and the Food and Agriculture Organization
(FAO), Agricultural Outlook 2021-2030, 2021.
31. United Nations (UN), Land and Human Rights,
https://www.ohchr.org/EN/Issues/LandAndHR/Pages/LandandHumanRightsIndex.aspx, accessed 4 February
2021.
32. United Nations (UN) Press Release GA/EF/3521, Rural Population ‘Left Behind’ by Uneven Global Economy,
Speakers Note, as Second Committee Debates Poverty Eradication, 2019.
33. United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), Global Greenhouse Gas Emissions Data,
https://www.epa.gov/ghgemissions/global-greenhouse-gas-emissions-data, accessed 10 May 2022.
34. Willett, J. Rockström, B. Loken, et al., Food in the Anthropocene: the EAT–Lancet Commission on healthy diets
from sustainable food systems, 2019.
35. World Bank Blogs, T. Khokhar, Chart: Globally, 70% of Freshwater is Used for Agriculture,
https://blogs.worldbank.org/opendata/chart-globally-70-freshwater-used-agriculture, accessed 4 February 2021.
36. World Bank Group, Environmental, Health, and Safety General Guideline for Annual Crop Production, 2016.
37. World Bank Group, Growing the Rural Nonfarm Economy to Alleviate Poverty, 2017
38. World Bank Group, The Changing Nature of Work, 2019.
39. World Trade Organization (WTO), Agriculture: fairer markets for farmers,
https://www.wto.org/english/thewto_e/whatis_e/tif_e/agrm3_e.htm, accessed 4 February 2021.
Resources:
40. GRI, Linking the SDGs and the GRI Standards, updated regularly.
41. GRI and UN Global Compact, Integrating the SDGs into corporate reporting: A practical guide, 2018.
Topic 13.1 Emissions
Authoritative instruments:
42. United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), Paris Agreement, 2015.
Additional references:
43. Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), Committee on Fisheries, the Use of Best Available Science in
Developing and Promoting Best Practices for Trawl Fishing Operations, 2018.
44. Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), Livestock’s long shadow: environmental issues and options, 2006.
45. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), Climate Change 2014: Mitigation of Climate Change –
Transport, 2014.
46. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), Special Report on Climate Change and Land, 2019.
47. Sala, E., Mayorga, J., Bradley, D. et al., Protecting the global ocean for biodiversity, food and climate, 2021.
Resources:
48. World Resources Institute (WRI) and World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD), GHG
Protocol Agricultural Guidance, 2014.
Topic 13.2 Climate adaptation and resilience
Additional references:
49. Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), The State of World Fisheries and Aquaculture, 2018.
50. Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), The State of Food and Agriculture, 2016.
51. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), Food security, 2019.
52. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), Climate Change and Land, 2019.
53. Parry, C. Rosenzweig, M. Livermore, Climate change, global food supply and risk of hunger, 2005.
54. United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs Indigenous Peoples, Climate change,
https://www.un.org/development/desa/indigenouspeoples/climate-change.html, accessed 29 January 2021.
80 GRI 13: Agriculture, Aquaculture and Fishing Sectors 2022
55. United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO), Intergovernmental Platform on
Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services (IPBES), Knowing our Lands and Resources Indigenous and Local
Knowledge of Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services in Africa, 2015.
Resources:
56. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), Climate Change and Land, 2019.
57. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), Climate Change 2014: Mitigation of Climate Change –
Chapter 14: Adaptation needs and options, 2014.
Topic 13.3 Biodiversity
Authoritative instruments:
58. Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), Agreement to promote Compliance with International Conservation and
Management Measures by Fishing Vessels on the High Seas, 1995.
59. United Nations (UN) Convention, Convention on the Law of the Sea, 1982.
60. United Nations (UN), Agreement for the Implementation of the Provisions of the United Nations Convention on
the Law of the Sea of 10 December 1982 relating to the Conservation and Management of Straddling Fish Stocks
and Highly Migratory Fish Stocks, 1995.
Additional references:
61. European Commission, Global Soil Biodiversity Atlas, 2015.
62. Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), 6 ways indigenous peoples are helping the world achieve
#ZeroHunger, 2017.
63. Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), FAO's Global Action on Pollination Services for Sustainable Agriculture,
https://www.fao.org/pollination/background/bees-and-other-pollinators/en/, accessed 14 February 2022.
64. Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), Fish as feed inputs for aquaculture – practices, sustainability and
implications: a global synthesis, 2009.
65. Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), Sustainable Development Goals: Indicator 14.4.1 - Proportion of fish
stocks within biologically sustainable levels, http://www.fao.org/sustainable-development-
goals/indicators/1441/en/, accessed 29 January 2021.
66. Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), The First Global Integrated Marine Assessment, 2016.
67. Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), The State of the World's Biodiversity for Food and Agriculture, 2019.
68. Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), The State of World Fisheries and Aquaculture, 2020.
69. Global Ghost Gear Initiative, Homepage, https://www.ghostgear.org/, accessed 29 January 2021.
70. Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), The Use of Wild Fish as Aquaculture Feed and its Effects on Income
and Food for the Poor and the Undernourished, 2008.
71. Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), Why bees matter? The importance of bees and other pollinators for food
and agriculture, 2018.
72. Intergovernmental Science-Policy Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services, Global Assessment Report
on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services, 2019.
73. International Union for Conservation of Nature, Threats Classification Scheme,
https://www.iucnredlist.org/resources/classification-schemes, accessed 29 January 2021.
74. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Impact of “Ghost Fishing” via Derelict Fishing Gear, 2015.
75. United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), Indigenous Peoples: The unsung heroes of conservation,
2017.
76. United Nations, Local Biodiversity Outlooks 2 supplement, 2020.
Resources:
77. Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), The State of the World’s Biodiversity for Food and Agriculture, 2019.
78. Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), The Sustainability Assessment of Food and Agriculture systems, 2019.
Topic 13.4 Natural ecosystem conversion
Authoritative instruments:
79. United Nations (UN), Convention on Biological Diversity, 1992.
80. United Nations (UN), Convention to Combat Desertification, 1994.
81 GRI 13: Agriculture, Aquaculture and Fishing Sectors 2022
81. United Nations (UN), Framework Convention on Climate Change, 1992.
Additional references:
82. Accountability Framework Initiative, Terms and Definitions, 2020.
83. Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), Committee on Fisheries, the Use of Best Available Science in
Developing and Promoting Best Practices for Trawl Fishing Operations, 2018.
84. Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), Zero deforestation initiatives and their impacts on commodity supply
chains: Discussion paper prepared for the 57th Session of the FAO Advisory Committee on Sustainable Forest-
based Industries, 2018.
85. Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), Zero deforestation initiatives and their impacts on commodity supply
chains: Discussion paper prepared for the 57th Session of the FAO Advisory Committee on Sustainable Forest-
based Industries, 2018.
86. Global Forest Watch, Global Dashboard, https://www.globalforestwatch.org/dashboards/global/?lang=en,
accessed 29 January 2021.
87. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), Climate Change and Land, 2019.
88. Proforest, Landscape initiatives, webpage.
89. United Nations System of Environmental-Economic Accounting, Ecosystem conversions,
https://seea.un.org/sites/seea.un.org/files/4._ecosystems_conversion_forum_session.pdf, accessed 29
January 2021.
90. United Nations, General Assembly Resolution 71/285: United Nations Strategic Plan for Forests 2017–2030,
2017.
91. World Wildlife Fund for Nature (WWF), Deforestation and Conversion Free Supply Chains, 2021.
Resources:
92. Accountability Framework Initiative, Operational Guidance on Applying the Definitions Related to Deforestation,
Conversion, and Protection of Ecosystems, 2019.
93. Accountability Framework Initiative (AFI), Operational Guidance on Cutoff Dates, 2019.
94. Consumer Goods Forum (CGF), Zero Net Deforestation Resolution and Commitments, 2018.
95. United Nations (UN), New York Declaration on Forests, 2017.
Topic 13.5 Soil health
Authoritative instruments:
96. Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), International Code of Conduct for the sustainable use and management
of fertilizers, 2019.
Additional references:
97. European Commission, Global Soil Biodiversity Atlas, 2015.
98. Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), Intergovernmental Technical Panel, Status of the World’s Soil
Resources (SWSR): Technical Summary, 2015.
99. Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), International Atomic Energy Agency, Guidelines for Using Fallout
Radionuclides to Assess Erosion and Effectiveness of Soil Conservation Strategies, 2014.
100.Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), Methodological note to SDG Indicator 2.4.1 Proportion of Agricultural
Area under Productive and Sustainable Agriculture, 2020.
101.Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), Climate Change and Land, 2019.
102.World Wildlife Fund for Nature (WWF), Soil Erosion and Degradation, 2019.
Resources:
103.Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), Voluntary Guidelines on Sustainable Soil Management, 2017.
Topic 13.6 Pesticides use
Authoritative instruments:
104.Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) and World Health Organization (WHO), International Code of Conduct
on Pesticide Management, 2014.
105.Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) and World Health Organization (WHO), International Code of Conduct
82 GRI 13: Agriculture, Aquaculture and Fishing Sectors 2022
on Pesticide Management Guidelines on Highly Hazardous Pesticides, 2016.
106.International Labor Organization (ILO), Safety and Health in Agriculture Convention, 2001 (No. 184).
107.United Nations (UN), Basel Convention on the Control of Transboundary Movements of Hazardous Wastes and
Their Disposal, 1989.
108.United Nations (UN), Rotterdam Convention on the Prior Informed Consent (PIC) Procedure for Certain
Hazardous Chemicals and Pesticides in International Trade, 1998.
109.United Nations (UN), Stockholm Convention on Persistent Organic Pollutants, 2001.
Additional references:
110.W. Aktar, D. Sengupta, A. Chowdhury, Impact of pesticides use in agriculture: their benefits and hazards, 2009.
111.J. Moe, D. Ø. Hjermann, E. Ravagnan, R. K. Bechmann, Effects of an aquaculture pesticide (diflubenzuron) on
non-target shrimp populations: Extrapolation from laboratory experiments to the risk of population decline, 2019.
112.Safe Drinking Water Foundation, Pesticides and Water Pollution, https://www.safewater.org/fact-sheets-
1/2017/1/23/pesticides, accessed 9 February 2021.
113.World Health Organization (WHO), Pesticide residues in food, 2018.
RReessoouurrcceess::
114.Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), Integrated Pest Management,
http://www.fao.org/agriculture/crops/thematic-sitemap/theme/pests/ipm/more-ipm/en/, accessed 9 February
2021.
115.Rainforest Alliance, Integrated Pest Management and Natural Farming Solutions, 2020.
116.World Health Organization, The WHO Recommended Classification of Pesticides by Hazard and Guidelines to
Classification, 2019.
Topic 13.7 Water and effluents
Authoritative instruments
117.International Maritime Organization (IMO), Protocol of 1978 relating to the International Convention for the
prevention of pollution from ships, 1973, 1978
Additional references:
118.European Commission, Science for Environment Policy, 2015.
119.Global Aquaculture Alliance, What Is the Environmental Impact of Aquaculture?, 2019.
120.Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), Climate Change and Land, 2019.
121.Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, Agriculture and water policy changes: Stocktaking
and alignment with OECD and G20 recommendations, 2020.
122.World Bank, Water in Agriculture, 2020.
Resources:
123.International Maritime Organization (IMO), Resolution MEPC.295(71): 2017 Guidelines for the Implementation of
MARPOL Annex V, 2017.
124.International Maritime Organization (IMO), Simplified overview of the discharge provisions of the revised MARPOL
Annex V which entered into force on 1 March 2018, 2018.
Topic 13.8 Waste
Authoritative instruments:
125.International Maritime Organization (IMO), 2017 Guidelines for the Implementation of MARPOL Annex V, 2017.
126.International Maritime Organization (IMO), Simplified overview of the discharge provisions of the revised MARPOL
Annex V which entered into force on 1 March 2018, No date.
127.International Maritime Organization (IMO), Protocol of 1978 relating to the International Convention for the
prevention of pollution from ships, 1973, 1978.
Additional references:
128.Aquaculture Stewardship Council, Marine Litter and Aquaculture Gear, 2019.
129.Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), Abandoned, lost or otherwise discarded fishing gear, 2009.
130.Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), Nitrogen inputs to agricultural soils from livestock manure, 2018.
83 GRI 13: Agriculture, Aquaculture and Fishing Sectors 2022
131.Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), The State of Food and Agriculture 2019: Moving forward on food Loss
and waste reduction, 2019.
132.Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), Utilization and trade, http://www.fao.org/fishery/utilization_trade/en,
accessed 29 January 2021.
133.Global Aquaculture Alliance, For the future, a feed that makes fish feces float?, 2017.
134.Nwakaire, F. O. Obi, B. Ugwuishiwu, Agricultural waste concept, generation, utilization and management, 2016.
Resources:
135.Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), Technical Platform on the Measurement and Reduction of Food Loss
and Waste, http://www.fao.org/platform-food-loss-waste/en/, accessed 9 February 2021.
136.Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), SDG 12.3.1: Global Food Loss Index, 2018.
137.United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), World Health Organization (WHO), Food and Agriculture
Organization (FAO), Guidelines for the management of small quantities of unwanted and obsolete pesticides,
1999.
Topic 13.9 Food security
Authoritative instruments:
138.Committee on World Food Security, Principles for Responsible Investment in Agriculture and Food Systems,
2014.
139.Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), Voluntary Guidelines on the Progressive Realization of the Right to
Adequate Food in the Context of National Food Security, 2005.
Additional references:
140.Committee on Food Security, Sustainable Fisheries and Aquaculture for Food Security and Nutrition, 2014.
141.Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), Biofuels: prospects, risks and opportunities,
https://www.fao.org/publications/sofa/2008/en/, accessed 10 May 2022.
142.Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), Land use in agriculture by the numbers, 2020.
143.Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), Defining Organic Agriculture,
http://www.fao.org/3/AC116E/ac116e02.htm#TopOfPage, accessed 9 February 2021.
144.Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), Save and Grow in practice: maize, rice, wheat. A guide to Sustainable
Cereal Production, 2016.
145.Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), The State of Food and Agriculture 2020 - Moving Forward on Food Loss
and Waste Reduction, 2020.
146.Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), The State of Food Security and Nutrition in the World 2020, 2020.
147.Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), The State of World Food Security and Nutrition in the World 2019, 2019.
148.Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), Transforming Food and Agriculture to Achieve the SDGs, 2018.
149.Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), Fisheries and Aquaculture - Utilization and trade – Fish utilization,
https://www.fao.org/fishery/en/topic/2888/en, accessed on 16 February 2022.
150.Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), World Agriculture: Towards 2015/2030 - An FAO perspective, Crop
production and natural resource use, 2003.
151.High Level Panel of Experts on Food Security and Nutrition of the Committee on World Food Security, Food
security and nutrition: building a global narrative towards 2030, 2020.
152.Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), Climate Change and Land, 2019.
153.Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), Annual Report 5 Climate Change 2013: The Physical
Science Basis – Chapter 11 Agriculture, Forestry and Other Land Use (AFOLU), 2013.
154.Cashion, F. Le Manach, D. Zeller, D. Pauly, Most fish destined for fishmeal production are food-grade fish, 2017.
155.The EAT-Lancet Commission, Summary Report of the EAT-Lancet Commission: Healthy Diets from Sustainable
Food Systems, 2019.
156.World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD), Taking action on nutrition: Addressing the
nutrition deficit in agricultural supply chains, 2019.
Resources:
157.Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), SDG 12.3.1: Global Food Loss Index, Methodology for monitoring SDG
Target 12.3, 2018.
84 GRI 13: Agriculture, Aquaculture and Fishing Sectors 2022
158.World Resources Institute (WRI), Food Loss and Waste Accounting and Reporting Standard, 2016.
Topic 13.10 Food safety
Additional references:
159.Organization for economic cooperation and development (OECD), Antimicrobial resistance and agriculture, https
://www.oecd.org/agriculture/topics/antimicrobial-resistance-and-agriculture/#:~:text=The%20potential%20conse
quences%20of%20antimicrobial,and%20contamination%20of%20the%20environment , accessed 9 February
2021.
160.Washington and L. Ababouch, Private standards and certification in fisheries and aquaculture: Current practice
and emerging issues, 2011.
161.The EAT-Lancet Commission, Summary Report of the EAT-LANCET Commission: Healthy Diets from
Sustainable Food Systems, 2019.
162.World Health Organization (WHO), Antimicrobial resistance in the food chain. 2017.
163.World Health Organization (WHO), Food safety, 2020.
164.World Health Organization (WHO), Preventing food safety emergencies (INFOSAN), 2017.
165.World Health Organization (WHO), Foodborne Disease Burden Epidemiology Reference Group 2007-2015,
2015.
Resources:
166.Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), Codex Alimentarius – International Food Standards,
http://www.fao.org/fao-who-codexalimentarius/about-codex/en/, accessed 9 February 2021.
Topic 13.11 Animal health and welfare
Authoritative instruments:
167.World Organisation for Animal Health (OIE), Aquatic Animal Health Code, 2019.
168.World Organisation for Animal Health (OIE), Terrestrial Animal Health Code, 2019.
Additional references:
169.Committee on World Food Security, Sustainable agricultural development for food security and nutrition: What
roles for livestock?, 2016.
170.Farm Animal Welfare Education Centre, What is animal welfare?, 2012.
171.Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), The State of World Fisheries and Aquaculture 2020, 2020.
172.Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), Livestock’s Long Shadow: Environmental Issues and Options.Rome:
Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, 2006.
173.European Commission, Welfare of farmed fish: Common practices during transport and at slaughter, 2017.
174.A. Lines and J. Spence, Humane harvesting and slaughter of farmed fish, 2014.
175.National Farm Animal Care Council of Canada, Code of practice for the care and handling of beef cattle, 2013.
176.Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, What is animal hoarding and why is it harmful to animals?,
2020.
177.World Economic Forum, This is how many animals we eat each year,
https://www.weforum.org/agenda/2019/02/chart-of-the-day-this-is-how-many-animals-we-eat-each-year/,
accessed 19 February 2022.
178.World Health Organization (WHO), Antimicrobial resistance in the food chain, 2017.
179.World Organisation for Animal Health (OIE), What is animal welfare?, https://www.oie.int/en/animal-
welfare/animal-welfare-at-a-glance/, accessed 9 February 2021.
180.World Organisation for Animal Health (OIE), Terrestrial Animal Health Code: Chapter 6.1 Introduction to
Recommendations for Veterinary Public Health, 2019.
Topic 13.12 Local communities
Authoritative instruments:
181.United Nations (UN), Declaration on the Rights of Peasants and Other People, 2018.
Additional references:
85 GRI 13: Agriculture, Aquaculture and Fishing Sectors 2022
182.European Institute for Gender Equality (EIGE), Gender in agriculture and rural development, 2017.
183.International Institute for Sustainable Development (IISD), Private Investments and Agriculture: The importance of
integrating sustainability into planning and implementation, 2016.
184.International Labour Organization (ILO) and United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, Shared
Harvests: Agriculture, Trade and Employment, 2013.
185.Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), FAO Social Protection Framework: Promoting rural development for all,
2017.
186.Marine Stewardship Council, The impact on communities, https://www.msc.org/what-we-are-doing/oceans-at-
risk/the-impact-on-communities, accessed 9 February 2021.
187.Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, Pesticides are ‘global human rights
concern’, say UN experts urging new treaty, 2017.
188.Wing, R. A. Horton, and S. W. Marshall, et al., Air Pollution and Odor in Communities Near Industrial Swine
Operations, 2008.
189.WHO estimates that worldwide exposure to pesticides causes an annual 20,000 deaths and at least 3 million
cases of acute poisoning. World Health Organization, Acute pesticide poisoning: a proposed classification tool,
2008.
Topic 13.13 Land and resource rights
Authoritative instruments:
190.Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), Code of Conduct for Responsible Fishing, 1995.
191.Committee on World Food Security, Principles for the Responsible Investment in Agriculture and Food Systems,
2014.
192.Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), Voluntary Guidelines for Securing Sustainable Small-Scale Fisheries in
the Context of Food Security and Poverty Eradication, 2015.
193.Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), Voluntary Guidelines on the Responsible Governance of Tenure of
Land, Fisheries and Forests in the Context of National Food Security, 2012.
194.Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), Principles for Responsible Investment in Agriculture and Food Systems,
2014.
195.United Nations (UN), Agreement for the Implementation of the Provisions of the United Nations Convention on
the Law of the Sea of 10 December 1982 relating to the Conservation and Management of Straddling Fish Stocks
and Highly Migratory Fish Stocks, 1995.
Additional references:
196.Committee on World Food Security, Defend the defenders – how to effectively protect those who fight for the right
to food?, 2018.
197.Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), Right to Food and Access to Natural Resources, 2007.
198.Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), Due diligence, tenure and agricultural investment: A guide on the dual
responsibilities of private sector lawyers in advising on the acquisition of land and natural resources, 2019.
199.Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, Special Procedures of the Human Rights
Council, https://www.ohchr.org/en/special-procedures-human-rights-council/special-procedures-human-rights-
council#:~:text=The%20Special%20Procedures%20of%20the,thematic%20or%20country%2Dspecific%20perspective,
accessed 31 May 2022.
200.Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, Report of the Special Rapporteur on the
situation of human rights defenders, 2016.
201.Oirere, Kenya fishers protest influx of bigger vessels caused by new port,
https://www.seafoodsource.com/news/supply-trade/kenya-fishers-protest-influx-of-bigger-vessels-caused-by-
new-port, accessed 30 May 2022.
202.Foster, Fish are evolving to escape modern fishing techniques. This is what it means,
https://www.weforum.org/agenda/2020/10/fishing-techniques-behaviour-industry-oceans/, accessed 30 May
2022.
203.Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), Fishery Manager’s Guidebook – Management measures and their
application – Chapter 6: Use Rights and Responsible Fisheries: Limiting Access and Harvesting through Rights-
based Management, 2002.
204.United Nations Human Settlement Programme (UN-Habitat), Secure Land Rights for All, 2006.
86 GRI 13: Agriculture, Aquaculture and Fishing Sectors 2022
Resources:
205.Global Reporting Initiative, Land Tenure Rights: The need for greater transparency among companies worldwide,
2016.
Topic 13.14 Rights of indigenous peoples
Authoritative instruments:
206.Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), Voluntary Guidelines for Securing Sustainable Small-Scale Fisheries in
the Context of Food Security and Poverty Eradication, 2015.
207.Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), Voluntary Guidelines on the Responsible Governance of Tenure of
Land, Fisheries and Forests in the Context of National Food Security, 2012.
208.International Labour Organization (ILO), Indigenous and Tribal Peoples Convention, 1989 (No. 169).
209.United Nations (UN), Convention on Biological Diversity, 1992.
210.United Nations (UN), Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples, 2007.
Additional references:
211.Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), FAO and traditional knowledge: the linkages with Sustainability, food
security and climate change impact, 2009.
212.Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), FAO Policy on Indigenous and Tribal People, 2010.
213.Forest Peoples Programme, Agribusiness large-scale land acquisitions and human rights in Southeast Asia,
2013.
214.Inter-American Commission on Human Rights, Indigenous Peoples, Afro-Descendent Communities, and Natural
Resources: Human Rights Protection in the Context of Extraction, Exploitation, and Development Activities, 2015.
215.International Fund for Agricultural Development, Indigenous peoples’ collective rights to lands, territories and
natural resources – Lessons from IFAD-supported projects, 2018.
216.Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), Climate Change and Land, 2019.
217.Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), Climate Change and Land: Food security, 2019.
218.International Work Group for Indigenous Affairs (IWGIA), IWGIA Report 26: Case Studies and Legal Analysis –
Land Grabbing, Investments & Indigenous Peoples’ Rights to Land and Natural Resources, 2016.
219.Office of The United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, Indigenous Peoples and the United Nations
Human Rights System, 2013.
220.Oxfam, Unearthed: Land, power and inequality in Latin America, 2016.
221.Macgillivray, Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), Indigenous Peoples’ Tenure Rights in Fisheries: A
Canadian Case Study, 2019.
222.United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs Indigenous Peoples, Climate change,
https://www.un.org/development/desa/indigenouspeoples/climate-change.html, accessed 10 May 2022.
223.United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO), Intergovernmental Platform on
Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services (IPBES), Knowing our Lands and Resources Indigenous and Local
Knowledge of Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services in Africa, 2015.
224.United Nations, Free, prior and informed consent: a human rights-based approach - Study of the Expert
Mechanism on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples, 2018.
Resources:
225.Forest People’s Programme, Norway’s International Climate and Forest Initiative, Ground-truthing to improve
due diligence on human rights in deforestation-risk supply chains, 2020.
Topic 13.15 Non-discrimination and equal opportunity
Authoritative instruments:
226.International Labour Organization (ILO), Violence and Harassment Convention, 2019 (No. 190).
227.International Labour Organization (ILO), Work in Fishing Convention, 2007 (No. 188).
228.International Labour Organization (ILO), Tripartite Meeting on Issues relating to Migrant Fishers, Conclusions on
the Promotion of Decent Work for Migrant Fishers, 2017.
Additional references:
87 GRI 13: Agriculture, Aquaculture and Fishing Sectors 2022
229.Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), Closing the Gender Gap in Agriculture, 2011.
230.Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), Gender Equality,
http://www.fao.org/resources/infographics/infographics-details/en/c/180754/, accessed 4 February 2021.
231.Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), Gender, http://www.fao.org/policy-support/policy-themes/gender/en/,
accessed 4 February 2021.
232.Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), Governing Land for Women and Men, 2013.
233.Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), Regulating Labour and Safety Standards in the Agriculture, Forestry
and Fisheries, 2018.
234.Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), The State of World Fisheries and Aquaculture, 2020.
235.Human Rights Council, Peasant Farmers and the Right to Food: a History of Discrimination and Exploitation,
2009.
236.Human Rights Council, Study on Discrimination In the Context of the Right to Food, 2011.
237.International Labour Organization (ILO), Assessment of International Labour Standards that Apply to Rural
Employment, 2016.
238.International Labour Organization (ILO), Decent Work for Indigenous and Tribal Peoples in the Rural Economy,
2019.
239.International Labour Organization (ILO), Labour Situation of Indigenous Women in Peru – A Study, 2016.
240.International Labour Organization (ILO), Spotlight on Sexual Violence and Harassment in Commercial
Agriculture: Lower and Middle Income Countries, 2018.
Topic 13.16 Forced or compulsory labor
Authoritative instruments:
241.International Labour Organization (ILO), Work in Fishing Convention, 2007 (No. 188).
Additional references:
242.Amnesty International, The Great Palm Oil Scandal, 2016.
243.European Commission, Questions and Answers - Illegal, Unreported and Unregulated (IUU) fishing in general
and in Thailand. European Commission - Fact Sheet, 2019.
244.Global Slavery Index, 2018 Findings, Importing Risk / Cocoa, 2018.
245.Global Slavery Index, 2018 Findings, Importing Risk / Fishing, 2018.
246.Human Rights Watch, Hidden Chains: Rights Abuses and Forced Labor in Thailand’s Fishing Industry, 2018.
247.International Labour Organization (ILO), Decent work for migrant fishers, 2017.
248.International Labour Organization (ILO), Fighting Forced Labour: The Example of Brazil, 2009.
249.International Labour Organization (ILO), Forced Labour Convention, 1930 (No. 29) - Paraguay (Ratification:
1967), 2017.
250.International Labour Organization (ILO), Forced Labour of Adults and Children in Agriculture Sector of Nepal,
2013.
251.International Labour Organization (ILO), Global Estimates of Modern Slavery, 2017.
252.International Labour Organization (ILO), Unleashing Rural Development through Productive Employment and
Decent Work: Building on 40 Years of ILO Work in Rural Areas Overview, 2011.
253.International Trade Unions Confederation, Slavery-like Working Conditions and Deadly Pesticides on Brazilian
Coffee Plantations, 2016.
254.United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, Human Trafficking FAQs, https://www.unodc.org/unodc/en/human-
trafficking/faqs.html, accessed 25 May 2022.
255.United States Department of Labor, A 2020 List of Goods Produced by Child Labor or Forced Labor, 2020.
256.Verité, Forced Labor Commodity Atlas, 2019.
Resources:
257.United States Department of Labor, A List of Goods Produced by Child Labor or Forced Labor, updated annually.
Topic 13.17 Child labor
Authoritative instruments:
258.Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), International Labour Organization (ILO), Guidance on Addressing Child
88 GRI 13: Agriculture, Aquaculture and Fishing Sectors 2022
Labour in Fisheries and Aquaculture, 2013.
259.International Labour Organization (ILO), Worst Forms of Child Labour Convention, 1999 (No. 182).
Additional references:
260.Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), Eliminating Child Labour in Fisheries and Aquaculture – Promoting
Decent Work and Sustainable Fish Value Chains, 2018.
261.Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), Hazardous Child Labour: FAO’s Contribution to Protecting Children
from Pesticide Exposure. 2015.
262.International Labour Organization (ILO), Child Labour in the Primary Production of Sugarcane, 2017.
263.International Labour Organization (ILO), Children in hazardous work, 2011.
264.International Labour Organization (ILO), Education and child labour in agriculture,
https://www.ilo.org/ipec/areas/Agriculture/WCMS_172347/lang--en/index.htm, accessed 4 February 2021.
265.International Labour Organization (ILO), Forced Labour and Trafficking in Fisheries Caught at Sea, 2013.
266.International Labour Organization (ILO), Global Estimates of Child Labour, 2017.
267.International Labour Organization (ILO), Hazardous Child Labour.
268.International Labour Organization (ILO), Improving the Safety and Health of Young Workers, 2018.
269.International Union of Food, Agricultural, Hotel, Restaurant, Catering Tobacco and Allied Workers’ Associations,
Child Labour and the Harvesting of Hazelnuts in Turkey Report of a Fact Finding Mission to Turkey, 2011.
270.Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), Children’s Work in the Livestock Sector: Herding and Beyond, 2013.
271.United Nations International Children’s Fund, Understanding the Impacts of Pesticides on Children, 2018.
272.United States Department of Labor, A 2018 List of Goods Produced by Child Labor or Forced Labor, 2018.
Resources:
273.International Labour Organization (ILO), the Food and Agricultural Organization (FAO), the International Fund for
Agricultural Development (IFAD), the International Food Policy Research Institute (IFPRI/CGIAR), and the
International Union of Food, Agricultural, Hotel, Restaurant, Catering, Tobacco and Allied Workers’ Associations
(IUF), International Partnership for Cooperation on Child Labour in Agriculture,
https://childlabourinagriculture.org/our-resources/, accessed 4 February 2021.
274.International Labour Organization (ILO), International Organization of Employers, Child Labour Guidance Tool for
Business: How to Do Business with Respect for Children’s Right to Be Free from Child Labour.
275.United States Department of Labor, A List of Goods Produced by Child Labor or Forced Labor, updated annually.
Topic 13.18 Freedom of association and collective bargaining
Authoritative instruments:
276.International Labour Organization (ILO), Right of Association (Agriculture) Convention, 1921 (No. 11).
277.International Labour Organization (ILO), Rural Workers' Organizations Convention, 1975 (No. 141).
278.International Labour Organization (ILO), Safety and Health in Agriculture Recommendation, 2001 (No. 192).
279.International Labour Organization (ILO), Employment Relationship Recommendation, 2006 (No. 198).
280.International Labour Organization (ILO), Transition from the Informal to the Formal Economy Recommendation,
2015 (No. 204).
Additional references:
281.Examples include palm oil and banana plantations. Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), Diagnosis on the
labour rights situation in the global banana industry: Paper on Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining,
2012.
282.Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO)s, Assessment of international labour standards that apply to rural
employment - An overview for the work of FAO relating to labour protection in agriculture, forestry and fisheries,
2016.
283.Global Deal for Decent Work and Inclusive Growth, Social Dialogue for the Transition from the Informal to the
Formal Economy, 2020.
284.International Labour Organization (ILO), Gaps in Coverage and Barriers to Ratification and Implementation of
International Labour Standards, No date.
285.International Labour Organization (ILO), Giving voice to rural workers, 2015.
286.International Trade Union Confederation, Global Rights Index, 2017.
89 GRI 13: Agriculture, Aquaculture and Fishing Sectors 2022
287.International Trade Union Confederation, Global Rights Index, 2021.
288.International Transport Workers’ Federation (ITF), Submission of the International Transport Workers’ Federation
to the UPR Session for Lao People’s Democratic Republic, 2019.
Topic 13.19 Occupational health and safety
Authoritative instruments:
289.International Labour Organization (ILO), Safety and Health in Agriculture Convention, 2001 (No. 184).
290.International Labour Organization (ILO), Safety and Health in Agriculture Recommendation, 2001 (No. 192).
291.International Labour Organization (ILO), Code of practice on Safety and health in agriculture, 2010.
292.International Labour Organization (ILO), Maritime Labour Convention, 2006 (No. 186).
293.International Labour Organization (ILO), Work in Fishing Convention, 2007 (No. 188).
294.International Maritime Organization (IMO), Cape Town Agreement, 2012.
295.International Maritime Organization (IMO), Code of Safety for Fishermen and Fishing Vessels, 2005.
296.International Maritime Organization (IMO), Implementation Guidelines on Part B of the Code, the Voluntary
Guidelines and the Safety Recommendations, 2014.
297.International Maritime Organization (IMO), Revised Voluntary Guidelines for the design, construction and
equipment of small fishing vessels, 2005.
298.International Maritime Organization (IMO), Safety recommendations for decked fishing vessels of less than 12
metres in length and undecked fishing vessels, 2012.
299.International Maritime Organization (IMO), International Convention on Standards of Training, Certification and
Watchkeeping for Fishing Vessel Personnel (STCW-F), 1995.
Additional references:
300.Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Workplace Safety & Health Topics – Commercial Fishing Safety,
https://www.cdc.gov/niosh/topics/fishing/vesseldisasters.html, accessed 4 February 2021.
301.Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), Insurance and safety at sea, http://www.fao.org/fishery/topic/16617/en,
accessed 4 February 2021.
302.Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), International Labour Organization (ILO), Safety and health,
http://www.fao-ilo.org/more/fao-ilo-safety/en, accessed 4 February 2021.
303.Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), Safety at sea for small-scale fishermen, 2019.
304.Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), Safety for Fishermen, http://www.fao.org/fishery/safety-for-
fishermen/en/, accessed 4 February 2021.
305.Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), The State of World Fisheries and Aquaculture 2020, 2020.
306.International Labour Organization (ILO), Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), International Union of Food,
Agricultural, Hotel, Restaurant, Catering, Tobacco and Allied Workers’ Associations, Agricultural Workers and
Their Contribution to Sustainable Agriculture and Rural Development, 2007.
307.International Labour Organization (ILO), Safety and health training manual for the commercial fishing industry in
Thailand, 2014.
308.International Labour Organization (ILO), Maritime sector to address abandonment of seafarers and shipowners’
liability, https://www.ilo.org/global/about-the-ilo/newsroom/news/WCMS_240418/lang--en/index.htm, accessed 4
February 2021.
309.International Labour Organization (ILO), Safety and health in agriculture, 2011.
310.Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), Safety for Fishermen, http://www.fao.org/fishery/safety-for-
fishermen/en/, accessed 4 February 2021.
311.International Maritime Organization, Enhancing fishing vessel safety to save lives,
https://www.imo.org/en/MediaCentre/HotTopics/Pages/Fishing.aspx, accessed 4 February 2021.
312.International Maritime Organization, Seafarer abandonment,
http://www.imo.org/en/OurWork/Legal/Pages/Seafarer-abandonment.aspx, accessed 4 February 2021.
313.International Transport Workers’ Federation, Abandonment,
https://www.itfglobal.org/en/sector/seafarers/abandonment, accessed 4 February 2021.
314.United Nations Water, Human Rights to Water and Sanitation, https://www.unwater.org/water-facts/human-
rights/#:~:text=The%20right%20to%20water%20entitles,for%20personal%20and%20domestic%20use,
accessed 4 February 2021.
90 GRI 13: Agriculture, Aquaculture and Fishing Sectors 2022
Resources:
315.International Labour Organization (ILO), International Labour Standards on Fishers,
https://www.ilo.org/global/standards/subjects-covered-by-international-labour-standards/fishers/lang--
en/index.htm, accessed 30 May 2022.
316.International Labour Organization (ILO), WASH@Work a Self-Training Handbook, 2016.
Topic 13.20 Employment practices
Authoritative instruments:
317.Interfaith Center on Corporate Responsibility, Best Practice Guidance on Ethical Recruitment of Migrant Workers,
2017.
318.International Labour Organization (ILO), Plantations Convention, 1958 (No. 110).
319.International Labour Organization (ILO), Migrant Workers Recommendation, 1975 (No. 141).
320.International Labour Organization (ILO), Migrant Workers (Supplementary Provisions), 1975 (No. 143).
321.International Labour Organization (ILO), Private Employment Agencies Convention, 1997 (No. 181).
322.International Labour Organization (ILO), Work in Fishing Convention, 2007 (No. 188).
323.International Labour Organization (ILO), Migration for Employment Convention, 1949 (No. 97).
324.International Labour Organization (ILO), Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, 1998.
325.International Labour Organization (ILO), Plantations Recommendation, 1958 (No. 110).
326.International Labour Organization (ILO), Employment Relationship Recommendation, 2006 (No. 198).
327.International Labour Organization (ILO), Transition from the Informal to the Formal Economy Recommendation,
2015 (No. 204).
328.International Labour Organization (ILO), Migration for Employment Recommendation, 1949 (No. 86).
329.International Labour Organization, General principles and operational guidelines for fair recruitment, 2019.
330.United Nations (UN), International Convention on the Protection of the Rights of All Migrant Workers and
Members of Their Families, 1990.
Additional references:
331.European Platform Undeclared Work, Tackling undeclared work in the agricultural sector: a learning resource
from the Agricultural Seminar, 2019.
332.International Labour Organization (ILO), Non-standard Employment around the World, 2016.
333.International Labour Organization (ILO), Employment practices and working conditions in Thailand’s fishing
sector, 2015.
334.International Labour Organization (ILO), Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), International Union of Food,
Agricultural, Hotel, Restaurant, Catering, Tobacco and Allied Workers' Associations, Agricultural Workers and
Their Contribution to Sustainable Agriculture and Rural Development, 2007.
335.International Labour Organization (ILO), Seafarers and their families now ensured of protection in cases of
abandonment, death, and long-term disability, 2017.
336.International Labour Organization (ILO), Stats Sheet n°4: Informal Employment, 2016.
337.International Labour Organization (ILO), Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD),
Tackling Vulnerability in the Informal Economy - Most workers in the world still go without social protection, 2019.
338.International Maritime Organization (IMO) and International Labour Organization (ILO), Joining forces to shape the
fishery sector of tomorrow, 2020.
339.International Maritime Organization, Enhancing fishing vessel safety to save lives,
https://www.imo.org/en/MediaCentre/HotTopics/Pages/Fishing.aspx, accessed 4 February 2021.
340.International Organization for Migration (IOM), International Organisation of Employers, International Recruitment
Integrity System, 2017.
341.Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), OECD Employment Outlook – Chapter 5.
Informal Employment and Promoting the Transition to a Salaried Economy, 2004.
Resources:
342.International Labour Organization (ILO), Fair Recruitment Initiative and the International Organization for Migration
(IOM), International Recruitment Integrity System (IRIS), The IRIS Standard, 2019.
343.International Organization for Migration (IOM), Ethical Recruitment and Supply Chain Management,
https://thailand.iom.int/ethical-recruitment-and-supply-chain-management, accessed 4 February 2021.
91 GRI 13: Agriculture, Aquaculture and Fishing Sectors 2022
Topic 13.21 Living income and living wage
Authoritative instruments:
344.Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), Regulating labour and safety standards in the agriculture, forestry and
fisheries sectors, 2018.
345.International Labour Organization (ILO), Minimum Wage Fixing Machinery (Agriculture) Convention, 1951 (No.
99).
346.Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO), RSPO Guidance Implementing a Decent Living Wage, 2019.
347.United Nations (UN), The Universal Declaration of Human Rights, 1948.
Additional references:
348.Fairtrade, Living income, https://www.fairtrade.net/issue/living-income, accessed 4 February 2021.
349.Global Living Wage Coalition, The Anker Methodology for Estimating a Living Wage,
https://www.globallivingwage.org/about/anker-methodology/, accessed 27 January 2022.
350.IDH, The Sustainable Trade Initiative, Living Wage Platform, https://www.idhsustainabletrade.com/living-wage-
platform/, accessed 27 January 2022.
351.International Labour Organization (ILO), Chapter 1: What is a minimum wage, 1.6 Payment in kind,
https://www.ilo.org/global/topics/wages/minimum-wages/definition/WCMS_439068/lang--en/index.htm,
accessed 4 February 2021.
352.International Labour Organization (ILO), Global Wage Report 2020-21, Wages and Minimum Wages, 2020.
353.International Labour Organization (ILO), Minimum Wage Policy Guide, 2016.
354.Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, Statement by Ms. Hilal Elver, United Nations
Special Rapporteur on the right to food, 2020.
355.Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO), RSPO Guidance for Implementing a Decent Living Wage, 2019.
356.World Bank, Poverty and Shared Prosperity 2016, 2016.
Resources:
357.International Labour Organization (ILO), International Labour Standards on Fishers,
https://www.ilo.org/global/standards/subjects-covered-by-international-labour-standards/fishers/lang--
en/index.htm, accessed 4 February 2021.
Topic 13.22 Economic inclusion
Authoritative instruments:
358.Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), Guiding Principles for Responsible Contract Farming Operations, 2012.
359.United Nations (UN) Declaration, Declaration on the Rights of Peasants and Other People, 2018.
Additional references:
360.European Commission, Small-scale fisheries, https://ec.europa.eu/fisheries/cfp/small-scale-fisheries_en,
accessed 4 February 2021.
361.Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), Agribusiness Public-Private Partnerships: Country Case Studies –
Africa | Rural Finance and Investment Learning Centre, 2013.
362.Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), Family Farming Knowledge Platform, http://www.fao.org/family-
farming/detail/en/c/1109849/, accessed 4 February 2021.
363.Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), The Contribution of Social Protection to Economic Inclusion in Rural
Areas, 2020.
364.International Fund for Agricultural Development, United Nations Environment Programme, Smallholders, food
security, and the environment, 2014.
365.Fanzo, From big to small: the significance of smallholder farms in the global food system, 2017.
366.de Koning and B. de Steenhuijsen Piters, Farmers as Shareholders: A close look at recent experience, 2009.
367.World Bank, Poverty and Shared Prosperity 2016, 2016.
368.World Bank, The State of Economic Inclusion Report 2021: The Potential to Scale, 2021.
369.World Bank, World Development Report 2008: Agriculture for Development, 2008.
370.World Wildlife Foundation (WWF), Small-scale fisheries,
https://www.wwfmmi.org/medtrends/shifting_blue_economies/small_scale_fisheries/, accessed 30 May 2022.
92 GRI 13: Agriculture, Aquaculture and Fishing Sectors 2022
Topic 13.23 Supply chain traceability
Authoritative instruments:
371.Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), Agreement on Port State Measures to Prevent, Deter and Eliminate
Illegal, Unreported and Unregulated Fishing, 2016.
Additional references:
372.Aquaculture Stewardship Council, Feeding farmed fish responsibly, https://www.asc-aqua.org/aquaculture-
explained/why-do-we-need-responsible-aquaculture/feeding-farmed-fish-responsibly/, accessed 4 February
2021.
373.British Standards Institution, PAS 1550:2017 Exercising due diligence in establishing the legal origin of seafood
products and marine ingredients. Importing and processing. Code of practice, 2017.
374.British Retail Consortium (BRC), Environmental Justice Foundation (EJF) and WWF-UK, An Advisory Note for the
UK Supply Chain on how to avoid Illegal, Unreported and Unregulated (IUU) fishery products, 2015.
375.Ceres, Traceability is a must for companies with zero-deforestation pledges, 2018.
376.Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), Issue Brief #15 on Combating IUU fishing in the Caribbean through
policy and legislation, 2015.
377.Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), Illegal, Unreported and Unregulated (IUU) fishing,
http://www.fao.org/iuu-fishing/en/, accessed 4 February 2021.
378.Global Fishing Watch, IUU – Illegal, Unreported, Unregulated Fishing, 2016.
379.IDH – The Sustainable Trade Initiative, A Fact-Based Exploration of the Living and Pricing Strategies that Close
the Gap, 2020.
380.To illustrate, only 19% of the soy consumed in the European Union can be traced to producers who do not
increase deforestation; IDH – The Sustainable Trade Initiative, European Soy Monitor, 2018.
381.International Trade Centre, Traceability in food and agricultural products, 2015.
382.World Economic Forum, Innovation with a Purpose: Improving Traceability in Food Value Chains through
Technology Innovations, 2019.
383.World Health Organization (WHO), Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), FAO/WHO guide for developing and
improving national food recall systems, 2012.
384.World Wildlife Fund for Nature (WWF), Soy,
https://wwf.panda.org/discover/our_focus/food_practice/sustainable_production/soy/, accessed 4 February 2021.
385.World Wildlife Foundation (WWF), Unregulated Fishing of the High Seas of the Indian Ocean, 2020.
Resources:
386.Accountability Framework Initiative, Operational Guidance on Monitoring and Verification, 2019.
387.Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), Good practice guidelines on national seafood traceability systems,
2018.
388.Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), Traceability: A management tool for enterprises and governments,
2016.
389.United Nations Global Compact, BSR, A Guide to Traceability: A Practical Approach to Advance Sustainability in
Global Supply Chains, 2014.
Topic 13.24 Public policy and lobbying
Additional references:
390.Corporate Europe Observatory, Fishing for influence: Press passes give lobbyists EU Council building access
during fishing quota talks, 2017.
391.Corporate Europe Observatory, Monsanto lobbying: an attack on us, our planet and democracy, 2016.
392.C. Boyer and H. J. Boyer, Discussion Paper 9 Sustainable Utilisation of Fish Stocks: Is This Achievable? A Case
Study from Namibia, 2005.
393.European Commission, Assessment of the Agriculture and Rural Development Sectors in the Eastern
Partnership countries, 2012.
394.European Trade Union Institute for Research, The world of EU lobbying in Brussels, 2018.
395.Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), Livestock’s long shadow: environmental issues and options, 2006.
396.Greenpeace, How lobbyists for Monsanto led a ‘grassroots farmers’ movement against an EU glyphosate ban,
93 GRI 13: Agriculture, Aquaculture and Fishing Sectors 2022
2018.
397.High Level Panel of Experts on Food Security and Nutrition of the Committee on World Food Security,
Agroecological and Other Innovative Approaches for Sustainable Agriculture and Food Systems that Enhance
Food Security and Nutrition, 2019.
Topic 13.25 Anti-competitive behavior
Additional references:
398.European Commission, Case AT.39633 – Shrimps, Cartel Procedure Council Regulation (EC) 1/2003, 2013.
399.European Commission, Study on the Environmental Impact of Palm Oil Consumption and on Existing
Sustainability Standards, 2018.
400.Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), The State of Agricultural Commodity Markets 2015-16: Competition and
food security, 2016.
401.Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, Competition and Regulation in Agriculture:
Monopsony Buying and Joint Selling, 2004.
402.United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, Cocoa Study: Industry Structures and Competition,
2008.
403.United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, The effects of anti-competitive business practices on
developing countries and their development prospects, 2008.
Topic 13.26 Anti-corruption
Additional references:
404.Environmental Investigation Agency, Permitting Crime: How palm oil expansions drives illegal logging in
Indonesia, 2014.
405.Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) and Transparency International, Corruption in the Land Sector, 2011.
406.IDH – The Sustainable Trade Initiative, A recipe for success? Three measures protecting the Cavally forest in
West Africa from illegal cocoa farming activities, 2020.
407.International Union for Conservation of Nature, Corruption in fisheries: from bad to worse, 2008.
408.Ridler and N. Hishamunda, Promotion of sustainable commercial aquaculture in sub-Saharan Africa, 2001.
Resources:
409.United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, Rotten Fish: A guide on addressing corruption in the fisheries sector,
2019.
PO Box 10039
1001 EA Amsterdam
The Netherlands
www.globalreporting.org
