GRI 11: Oil and Gas Sector 2021
11
EFFECTIVE DATE: 1 JANUARY 2023
SECTOR STANDARD
GRI 11: Oil and Gas Sector 2021
Sector Standard
Effective Date
This Standard is effective for reports or other materials published on or after 1 January 2023
Responsibility
This Standard is issued by the Global Sustainability Standards Board (GSSB). Any feedback on the GRI Standards
can be submitted to gssbsecretariat@globalreporting.org for the consideration of the GSSB.
Due Process
This Standard was developed in the public interest and in accordance with the requirements of the GSSB Due
Process Protocol. It has been developed using multi-stakeholder expertise, and with regard to authoritative
intergovernmental instruments and widely held expectations of organizations relating to social, environmental, and
economic responsibilities.
Legal Liability
This document, designed to promote sustainability reporting, has been developed by the Global Sustainability
Standards Board (GSSB) through a unique multi-stakeholder consultative process involving representatives from
organizations and report information users from around the world. While the GRI Supervisory Board, Management
Board, and GSSB encourage the use of the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI Standards) and related
Interpretations by all organizations, the preparation and publication of reports based fully or partially on the GRI
Standards and related Interpretations are the full responsibility of those producing them. Neither the GRI Supervisory
Board, Management Board, GSSB, nor Stichting Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) can assume responsibility for any
consequences or damages resulting directly or indirectly from the use of the GRI Standards and related
Interpretations in the preparation of reports, or the use of reports based on the GRI Standards and related
Interpretations.
Copyright and trademark notice
This document is copyright-protected by Stichting Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). The reproduction and distribution
of this document for information and/or use in preparing a sustainability report is permitted without prior permission
from GRI. However, neither this document nor any extract from it may be reproduced, stored, translated, or transferred
in any form or by any means (electronic, mechanical, photocopied, recorded, or otherwise) for any other purpose
without prior written permission from GRI.
Global Reporting Initiative, GRI and logo, GSSB and logo, and GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI
Standards) and logo are trademarks of Stichting Global Reporting Initiative.
© 2025 GRI. All rights reserved.
ISBN 978-90-8866-136-5
3 GRI 11: Oil and Gas Sector 2021
Content
Introduction 4
Sector this Standard applies to 4
System of GRI Standards 5
Using this Standard 6
1. Sector profile 9
Sector activities and business relationships 9
The sector and sustainable development 10
2. Likely material topics 13
Topic 11.1 GHG emissions 13
Topic 11.2 Climate adaptation, resilience, and transition 16
Topic 11.3 Air emissions 20
Topic 11.4 Biodiversity 22
Topic 11.5 Waste 24
Topic 11.6 Water and effluents 26
Topic 11.7 Closure and rehabilitation 28
Topic 11.8 Asset integrity and critical incident management 30
Topic 11.9 Occupational health and safety 32
Topic 11.10 Employment practices 34
Topic 11.11 Non-discrimination and equal opportunity 36
Topic 11.12 Forced labor and modern slavery 38
Topic 11.13 Freedom of association and collective bargaining 40
Topic 11.14 Economic impacts 42
Topic 11.15 Local communities 44
Topic 11.16 Land and resource rights 46
Topic 11.17 Rights of indigenous peoples 48
Topic 11.18 Conflict and security 50
Topic 11.19 Anti-competitive behavior 52
Topic 11.20 Anti-corruption 54
Topic 11.21 Payments to governments 57
Topic 11.22 Public policy 60
Glossary 62
Bibliography 75
4 GRI 11: Oil and Gas Sector 2021
Introduction
GRI 11: Oil and Gas Sector 2021 provides information for organizations in the oil and gas sector about their likely
material topics. These topics are likely to be material for organizations in the oil and gas sector on the basis of the
sector’s most significant impacts on the economy, environment, and people, including on their human rights.
GRI 11 also contains a list of disclosures for organizations in the oil and gas sector to report in relation to each likely
material topic. This includes disclosures from the GRI Topic Standards and other sources.
The Standard is structured as follows:
• Section 1 provides a high-level overview of the oil and gas sector, including its activities, business relationships,
context, and the connections between the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and the likely
material topics for the sector.
• Section 2 outlines the topics that are likely to be material for organizations in the oil and gas sector and therefore
potentially merit reporting. For each likely material topic, the sector’s most significant impacts are described and
disclosures to report information about the organization’s impacts in relation to the topic are listed.
• The Glossary contains defined terms with a specific meaning when used in the GRI Standards. The terms are
underlined in the text and linked to the definitions.
• The Bibliography contains authoritative intergovernmental instruments and additional references used in
developing this Standard, listed by topic. It also lists further resources that the organization can consult.
The rest of the Introduction section provides an overview of the sector this Standard applies to, an overview of the
system of GRI Standards, and further information on using this Standard.
Sector this Standard applies to
GRI 11 applies to organizations undertaking any of the following:
• Exploration and production of onshore and offshore oil and gas.
• Supply of equipment and services to oil fields and offshore platforms, such as drilling, exploration, seismic
information services, and platform construction.
• Transportation and storage of oil and gas, such as oil and gas pipeline operators.
• Refining of oil into petroleum products for use as fuels and as feedstocks for chemicals.
This Standard can be used by any organization in the oil and gas sector, regardless of size, type, geographic location,
or reporting experience.
The organization must use all applicable Sector Standards for the sectors in which it has substantial activities.
Sector classifications
Table 1 lists industry groupings relevant to the oil and gas sector covered in this Standard in the Global Industry
Classification Standard (GICS®) [4], the Industry Classification Benchmark (ICB) [3], the International Standard
Industrial Classification of All Economic Activities (ISIC) [6], and the Sustainable Industry Classification System
(SICS®) [5].1 The table is intended to assist an organization in identifying whether GRI 11 applies to it and is for
reference only.
1 The relevant industry groupings in the Statistical Classification of Economic Activities in the European Community (NACE) [1] and the North
American Industry Classification System (NAICS) [2] can also be established through available concordances with the International Standard
Industrial Classification (ISIC).
5 GRI 11: Oil and Gas Sector 2021
Table 1. Industry groupings relevant to the oil and gas sector in other classification systems
CLASSIFICATION CLASSIFICATION CLASSIFICATION NAME
SYSTEM NUMBER
GICS® 10101010 Oil & Gas Drilling
10101020 Oil & Gas Equipment & Services
10102010 Integrated Oil & Gas
10102020 Oil & Gas Exploration & Production
10102030 Oil & Gas Refining and Marketing
10102040 Oil & Gas Storage & Transportation
ICB 60101000 Integrated Oil & Gas
60101010 Oil: Crude Producers
60101015 Offshore Drilling & Other Services
60101020 Oil Refining and Marketing
60101030 Oil Equipment & Services
60101035 Pipelines
ISIC B6 Extraction of crude petroleum and natural gas
B91 Support activities for petroleum and natural gas extraction
C192 Manufacture of refined petroleum products
SICS® EM-EP Oil & Gas - Exploration & Production
EM-MD Oil & Gas - Midstream
EM-RM Oil & Gas - Refining & Marketing
EM-SV Oil & Gas - Services
System of GRI Standards
This Standard is part of the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI Standards). The GRI Standards enable an
organization to report information about its most significant impacts on the economy, environment, and people,
including impacts on their human rights, and how it manages these impacts.
The GRI Standards are structured as a system of interrelated standards that are organized into three series: GRI
Universal Standards, GRI Sector Standards, and GRI Topic Standards (see Figure 1 in this Standard).
Universal Standards: GRI 1, GRI 2 and GRI 3
GRI 1: Foundation 2021 specifies the requirements that the organization must comply with to report in accordance
with the GRI Standards. The organization begins using the GRI Standards by consulting GRI 1.
GRI 2: General Disclosures 2021 contains disclosures that the organization uses to provide information about its
reporting practices and other organizational details, such as its activities, governance, and policies.
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 provides guidance on how to determine material topics. It also contains disclosures that
the organization uses to report information about its process of determining material topics, its list of material topics,
and how it manages each topic.
Sector Standards
The Sector Standards provide information for organizations about their likely material topics. The organization uses
the Sector Standards that apply to its sectors when determining its material topics and when determining what to
report for each material topic.
Topic Standards
The Topic Standards contain disclosures that the organization uses to report information about its impacts in relation
to particular topics. The organization uses the Topic Standards according to the list of material topics it has
determined using GRI 3.
6 GRI 11: Oil and Gas Sector 2021
Figure 1. GRI Standards: Universal, Sector and Topic Standards
GRI Standards
Universal Standards Sector Standards Topic Standards
Requirements and
principles for using the
GRI Standards
Disclosures about the
reporting organization
Disclosures and
guidance about the
organization's material
topics
Apply all three Universal Use the Sector Standards that Select Topic Standards to report
Standards to your reporting apply to your sectors specific information on your
material topics
Using this Standard
An organization in the oil and gas sector reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards is required to use this
Standard when determining its material topics and then when determining what information to report for the material
topics.
Determining material topics
Material topics represent an organization's most significant impacts on the economy, environment, and people,
including their human rights.
Section 1 of this Standard provides contextual information that can help the organization in identifying and
assessing its impacts.
Section 2 outlines the topics that are likely to be material for organizations in the oil and gas sector. The organization
is required to review each topic described and determine whether it is a material topic for it.
The organization needs to use this Standard when determining its material topics. However, circumstances for each
organization vary, and the organization needs to determine its material topics according to its specific circumstances,
such as its business model; geographic, cultural, and legal operating context; ownership structure; and the nature of
its impacts. Because of this, not all topics listed in this Standard may be material for all organizations in the oil and
gas sector. See GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 for step-by-step guidance on how to determine material topics.
If the organization has determined any of the topics included in this Standard as not material, then the organization is
required to list them in the GRI content index and explain why they are not material.
See Requirement 3 in GRI 1: Foundation 2021 and Box 5 in GRI 3 for more information on using Sector Standards to
determine material topics.
7 GRI 11: Oil and Gas Sector 2021
Determining what to report
For each material topic, an organization reports information about its impacts and how it manages these impacts.
Once an organization has determined a topic included in this Standard to be material, the Standard also helps the
organization identify disclosures to report information about its impacts relating to that topic.
For each topic in section 2 of this Standard, a reporting sub-section is included. These sub-sections list disclosures
from the GRI Topic Standards that are relevant to the topic. They may also list additional sector disclosures and
recommendations for the organization to report. This is done in cases where the Topic Standards do not provide
disclosures, or where the disclosures from the Topic Standards do not provide sufficient information about the
organization’s impacts in relation to a topic. These additional sector disclosures and recommendations may be
based on other sources. Figure 2 illustrates how the reporting included in each topic is structured.
The organization is required to report the disclosures from the Topic Standards listed for those topics it has
determined to be material. If any of the Topic Standards disclosures listed are not relevant to the organization’s
impacts, the organization is not required to report them. However, the organization is required to list these disclosures
in the GRI content index and provide ‘not applicable’ as the reason for omission for not reporting the disclosures. See
Requirement 6 in GRI 1: Foundation 2021 for more information on reasons for omission.
The additional sector disclosures and recommendations outline further information which has been identified as
relevant for organizations in the oil and gas sector to report in relation to a topic. The organization should provide
sufficient information about its impacts in relation to each material topic, so that information users can make informed
assessments and decisions about the organization. For this reason, reporting these additional sector disclosures
and recommendations is encouraged, however it is not a requirement.
When the organization reports additional sector disclosures, it is required to list them in the GRI content index (see
Requirement 7 in GRI 1).
If the organization reports information that applies to more than one material topic, it does not need to repeat it for
each topic. The organization can report this information once, with a clear explanation of all the topics it covers.
If the organization intends to publish a standalone sustainability report, it does not need to repeat information that it
has already reported publicly elsewhere, such as on web pages or in its annual report. In such a case, the
organization can report on a required disclosure by providing a reference in the GRI content index as to where this
information can be found (e.g., by providing a link to the web page or citing the page in the annual report where the
information has been published).
See Requirement 5 in GRI 1 for more information on using Sector Standards to report disclosures.
GRI Sector Standard reference numbers
GRI Sector Standard reference numbers are included for all disclosures listed in this Standard, both those from GRI
Standards and additional sector disclosures. When listing the disclosures from this Standard in the GRI content
index, the organization is required to include the associated GRI Sector Standard reference numbers (see
Requirement 7 in GRI 1: Foundation 2021). This identifier helps information users assess which of the disclosures
listed in the applicable Sector Standards are included in the organization’s reporting.
Defined terms
Defined terms are underlined in the text of the GRI Standards and linked to their definitions in the Glossary. The
organization is required to apply the definitions in the Glossary.
References and resources
The authoritative intergovernmental instruments and additional references used in developing this Standard, as well
as further resources that may help report on likely material topics and can be consulted by the organization are listed
in the Bibliography. These complement the references and resources listed in GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 and in the
GRI Topic Standards.
8 GRI 11: Oil and Gas Sector 2021
Figure 2. Structure of reporting included in each topic
1 Management of the topic
The organization is required to report how it manages
each material topic using Disclosure 3-3 in GRI 3:
Material Topics 2021.
2 Topic Standards disclosures
Disclosures from the GRI Topic Standards that have
been identified as relevant for organizations in the
5
sector(s) are listed here. When the topic is determined by
the organization as material, it is required to report those
1
disclosures or explain why they are not applicable in the
3 GRI context index. See the Topic Standard for the content
of the disclosure, including requirements,
recommendations, and guidance.
3 Additional sector recommendations
2 Additional sector recommendations may be listed. These
complement Topic Standards disclosures and are
recommended for an organization in the sector(s).
4 Additional sector disclosures
4 Additional sector disclosures may be listed. Reporting
these, together with any Topic Standards disclosures,
ensures the organization reports sufficient information
about its impacts in relation to the topic.
5 Sector Standard reference numbers
GRI Sector Standard reference numbers are required to
be included in the GRI Content Index. This helps
information users assess which of the disclosures listed
in the Sector Standards are included in the organization’s
reporting.
9 GRI 11: Oil and Gas Sector 2021
1. Sector profile
Oil and gas are non-renewable natural resources, used by humans for thousands of years and with particular
intensity during the last two centuries. The oil and gas sector is a large global industry producing fuel for
transportation and for energy generation, and raw materials for chemical products and polymers. The sector’s outputs
are also used in construction, clothing, fertilizers and insecticides, medical and electronic equipment, and a range of
everyday objects. The combustion of oil and gas generates air emissions, including greenhouse gases (GHGs),
which are the main contributor to climate change.
The oil and gas sector comprises organizations of different sizes and ownership status. State-owned oil and gas
enterprises are present in most oil and gas resource-rich countries, representing some of the largest organizations
in the sector. Privately held oil and gas organizations are also important and are, in general, vertically integrated and
operate internationally. Medium-sized organizations may operate in specific regions or countries, or deliver products,
services and technology, such as surveying of resources, drilling, design, planning, and construction, to exploration
and production organizations.
Sector activities and business relationships
Through their activities and business relationships, organizations can have an effect on the economy, environment,
and people, and in turn make negative or positive contributions to sustainable development. When determining its
material topics, the organization should consider the impacts of both its activities and its business relationships.
Activities
The impacts of an organization vary according to the types of activities it undertakes. The following list outlines some
of the key activities of the oil and gas sector, as defined in this Standard. This list is not exhaustive.
Exploration: Surveying of resources, including aerial surveys, seismic testing, and exploratory drilling.
Development: Design, planning, and construction of oil and gas fields, including processing and worker facilities.
Production: Extraction of oil and gas from onshore or offshore reserves, and separation of oil, gas and water.
Oil sands mining: Extraction of bitumen from oil sands using surface mining or in situ techniques.
Closure and rehabilitation: Closure, decommissioning, dismantling, removal, disposal, or modification of assets,
facilities and sites.
Refining: Refining of oil into petroleum products for use as fuels and as feedstocks for chemicals.
Processing: Processing gas into pipe-quality natural gas and natural gas liquids, including removing hydrocarbons
and fluids.
Transportation: Marine and land transportation of oil and gas.
Storage and pipelines: Distribution and storage of oil and gas in tanks and marine vessels and distribution via
marine and land-based pipelines.
Sales and marketing: Selling of oil and gas products for the purpose of, for example, fuels, gas for retail use, and
inputs in the production of specialty chemicals, petrochemicals, and polymers.
Business relationships
An organization’s business relationships include relationships that it has with business partners, with entities in its
value chain including those beyond the first tier, and with any other entities directly linked to its operations, products,
or services. The following types of business relationships are prevalent in the oil and gas sector and are relevant
when identifying the impacts of organizations in the sector.
Joint ventures are arrangements in which organizations share the costs, benefits, and liabilities of oil and gas
activities. An organization in the oil and gas sector can be involved with negative impacts as a result of a joint venture,
even if it is a non-operating partner.
State-owned enterprises (SOEs) are often the largest oil and gas producers and hold ownership of the majority of
10 GRI 11: Oil and Gas Sector 2021
global reserves. They may also serve as joint venture partners to publicly traded oil and gas organizations. SOEs have
specific challenges relating to transparency and governance, which are addressed in some of the likely material
topics in this Standard.
Suppliers and contractors are used in large numbers in the oil and gas sector to perform certain activities, such as
drilling and construction, or to provide other services and products. Some of the significant impacts covered in this
Standard concern the supply chain.
Customers use oil and gas to produce energy, heat, and materials. When combusting oil and gas, they generate
greenhouse gases (GHGs) and other air emissions. While the primary responsibility for reducing and managing their
emissions lies with customers, organizations extracting and producing oil and gas are also expected to take actions
to reduce emissions from the combustion of their products and to disclose the related GHG emissions (Scope 3
GHG emissions). As such, this Standard includes not only direct (Scope 1) and indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions,
but also other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions.
The sector and sustainable development
Energy is a key driver of economic growth and sustainable development. Oil and gas have been fundamental sources
of the world’s energy, contributing to economic growth and poverty reduction.
Currently, oil and gas are the world's most actively traded commodities. Together, they represent the most important
resources for electricity production, providing over 50% of the total supply [13]. In 2020, 90% of the transportation
sector’s energy needs were met by oil products [12]. The oil and gas sector today also meets much of society’s
needs for raw materials used in the production of specialty chemicals, petrochemicals, and polymers.
At present, oil and gas are considered strategic assets in regions or countries where they generate critical revenue
streams or support energy independence. For example, the percentage of gross domestic product attributable to oil
revenues has reached 45% in some resource-rich countries [20]. Revenues from this sector can contribute to local
and national economic development, together with job creation, investments, and infrastructure, business, and skills
development.
The majority of the world’s countries have committed to combating climate change, as outlined in the Paris
Agreement [7]. The International Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) warns that continuing to emit greenhouse gas
(GHG) at the current rate could result in dangerous global temperature increases leading to magnified risks of
extreme weather and climate events [15]. Other reports show that with current policy commitments the world is
heading toward a dangerous 3.2°C rise in temperature by 2100 [18].
These projections underline the need to transition to a low-carbon economy based on affordable, reliable, and
sustainable energy. Achieving net-zero GHG emissions by 2050 is required to limit global warming to 1.5°C above
pre-industrial levels, a level predicted to pose significantly lower risks to natural and human systems than that of 2°C
[15]. Combined, the GHGs released by extracting, refining, and burning oil and gas represent 55% of all energy-
related GHG emissions and constitute the largest contribution to anthropogenic climate change [36]. Action taken by
the oil and gas sector is essential to the transition to a low-carbon economy.
The number of oil and gas operations closing will increase in the context of transition to a low-carbon economy, and
impacts of these closures on workers and communities will consequently rise. A just transition is a fair and equitable
pathway through industrial transformation to a sustainable future, where governments and organizations work in
collaboration. Such a transition integrates worker-centric public policies and programs with employer policies and
programs to provide a secure and decent future for all workers, their families, and the communities that rely on them.
The path for transitioning to a low-carbon economy will vary for different countries according to factors such as their
economic conditions and capability to respond to and mitigate impacts of climate change [9].
Besides contributing to climate change, the activities of the oil and gas sector generate further negative impacts on
the environment and people, including impacts on their human rights. These impacts include loss of biodiversity; soil,
water and air pollution; conflict and social disruption, and threats to human health. Vulnerable groups such as
indigenous peoples or women may be disproportionally affected, and oil and gas operations may continue to
generate negative impacts after their closure.
Negative impacts can be intensified by inadequate governance of natural resources. The large revenues derived from
the oil and gas sector can lead to corruption and mismanagement of resources. Economies dependent on oil and
gas can also be vulnerable to commodity price and production fluctuations.
11 GRI 11: Oil and Gas Sector 2021
Sustainable Development Goals
The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), part of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development adopted by the
193 United Nations (UN) member states, comprise the world’s comprehensive plan of action to achieving
sustainable development [8].
Since the SDGs and targets associated with them are integrated and indivisible, oil and gas organizations have the
potential to contribute to all SDGs by enhancing their positive impacts, or by preventing and mitigating their negative
impacts, on the economy, environment, and people.
The oil and gas sector is particularly relevant to achieving Goal 13: Climate Action and, given the potential impact of
climate change on the development agenda, this will influence the achievement of every goal, while contributing to the
transition to a low-carbon economy.
The oil and gas sector also plays a fundamental role in achieving Goal 7: Affordable and Clean Energy. Ensuring
access to energy for all while transitioning toward a low-carbon economy is one of the challenges faced by the sector.
Millions of people still lack access to energy. This limitation hinders access to basic services such as those
recognized in Goal 3: Good Health and Wellbeing and Goal 4: Quality Education as well as their income-generating
opportunities, which are crucial to achieving Goal 1: No Poverty. More broadly, affordable and reliable energy is a
fundamental input for the world economy and instrumental for achieving Goal 8: Decent Work and Economic Growth.
In countries that produce oil and gas, the sector generates high revenues and attracts significant investment.
However, the large revenues derived from the sector carry a risk of corruption and conflict over resources, which have
a bearing on Goal 16: Peace and Justice Strong Institutions.
Table 2 presents connections between the likely material topics for the oil and gas sector and the SDGs. These
linkages were identified based on an assessment of the impacts described in each likely material topic, the targets
associated with each SDG, and existing mapping undertaken for the sector (see references [14] and [16] in the
Bibliography).
Table 2 is not a reporting tool but presents connections between the oil and gas sector’s significant impacts and the
goals of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. See references [21] and [22] in the Bibliography for
information on reporting progress towards the SDGs using the GRI Standards.
12 GRI 11: Oil and Gas Sector 2021
Table 2. Links between the likely material topics for the oil and gas sector and the SDGs
Topic 11.1 GHG Emissions
Topic 11.2 Climate adaptation,
resilience, and transition
Topic 11.3 Air emissions
Topic 11.4 Biodiversity
Topic 11.5 Waste
Topic 11.6 Water and effluents
Topic 11.7 Closure and rehabilitation
Topic 11.8 Asset integrity and critical
incident management
Topic 11.9 Occupational health and
safety
Topic 11.10 Employment practices
Topic 11.11 Non-discrimination and
equal opportunity
Topic 11.12 Forced labor and modern
slavery
Topic 11.13 Freedom of association
and collective bargaining
Topic 11.14 Economic impacts
Topic 11.15 Local communities
Topic 11.16 Land and resource rights
Topic 11.17 Rights of indigenous
peoples
Topic 11.18 Conflict and security
Topic 11.19 Anti-competitive behavior
Topic 11.20 Anti-corruption
Topic 11.21 Payments to governments
Topic 11.22 Public policy
13 GRI 11: Oil and Gas Sector 2021
2. Likely material topics
This section comprises the likely material topics for the oil and gas sector. Each topic describes the sector’s most
significant impacts related to the topic and lists disclosures that have been identified as relevant for reporting on the
topic by oil and gas organizations. The organization is required to review each topic in this section and determine
whether it is a material topic for the organization, and then to determine what information to report for its material
topics.
Topic 11.1 GHG emissions
Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions comprise air emissions that contribute to climate change, such as carbon
dioxide (CO ) and methane (CH ). This topic covers direct (Scope 1) and energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions
2 4
related to an organization’s activities, as well as other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions that occur upstream and
downstream of the organization’s activities.
GHG emissions are the single biggest contributor to climate change. The oil and gas sector’s activities and the use of
oil and gas products are responsible for a large portion of two major GHGs: carbon dioxide (CO ) and methane
2
(CH ). Globally, it is estimated that the sector is responsible for a quarter of all anthropogenic emissions of CH ,
4 4
which has a notably higher global warming potential than CO. Recent measurements indicate that available figures
2
on CH emissions from the sector could be underestimates. Other GHGs from oil and gas activities include ethane
4
(C H ), nitrous oxide (N O), hydrofluorocarbons (HCFs), perfluorocarbons (PFCs), sulfur hexafluoride (SF ), and
2 6 2 6
nitrogen trifluoride (NF ).
3
GHG emissions from oil and gas activities are classified as direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions in the case of activities
owned or controlled by the organization or energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions in the case of purchased or
acquired electricity, heating, cooling, and steam consumed by the organization. Currently, 15% of the world’s energy-
related GHG emissions come from the process of producing and distributing oil and gas [36].
Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions comprise emissions from fuel combustion during production, process emissions
such as those during loading and tankage, and fugitive emissions such as those from piping and equipment leaks. A
substantial source of the sector’s Scope 1 GHG emissions is flaring and venting, which aim to dispose of gas that
cannot be contained or handled otherwise for safety, technical, or economic reasons. These practices occur during oil
and gas production, storage, and refining.
Box 1. Flaring and venting
When gas needs to be disposed of, it may be flared (burned off), or vented (released without being burned).
Flaring converts gas to CO , while venting releases CH directly to the atmosphere. Given that CH has a
2 4 4
higher global warming potential than CO , routing associated gases to an efficient flare system instead of
2
venting is considered best practice and there is wide agreement that routine venting should be eliminated.
Flaring also represents a major source of emissions. While large amounts of gases resulting from oil and gas
activities are used or conserved, flaring still routinely occurs. According to the World Bank, routine flaring
occurs ‘during normal oil production operations in the absence of sufficient facilities or amenable geology to
re-inject the produced gas, utilize it on-site, or dispatch it to a market’. Increases in shale oil production has
further contributed to volumes of flaring.
The amount of natural gas flared in 2018 resulted in emissions of approximately 275 megatons of CO , as
2
well as other GHGs such as methane, black carbon and N O.
2
See references [34], [46] and [48] in the Bibliography.
Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions originate from stationary and mobile sources (e.g., transportation of
materials, products, or waste); and the activities of extraction; oil refining; liquefaction and regasification of natural
gas; and operation of facilities and equipment. The depletion of traditional oil and gas resources has led the sector to
move production to more difficult settings, which may involve more complex extraction methods such as offshore
deep-water drilling or oil sands mining. Despite the sector’s ongoing improvements in production efficiency, these
14 GRI 11: Oil and Gas Sector 2021
conditions are likely to increase the amount of energy used during production and transportation and, as such, GHG
emissions associated with from these activities.
GHG emissions resulting from the end use of products are classified as other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions. For
the oil and gas sector, these constitute the most significant GHG emissions and over half of global CO emissions
2
[33]. The majority of Scope 3 GHG emissions originate from combustion processes related to construction, electricity
and heat generation, manufacturing, and transportation. Volumes of these emissions have increased together with
higher energy demands.
15 GRI 11: Oil and Gas Sector 2021
Reporting on GHG emissions
If the organization has determined GHG emissions to be a material topic, this sub-section lists the disclosures
identified as relevant for reporting on the topic by the oil and gas sector.
STANDARD DISCLOSURE SECTOR
STANDARD
REF. NO.
Management of the topic
GRI 3: Material Disclosure 3-3 Management of material topics 11.1.1
Topics 2021
Additional sector recommendations
• Describe actions taken to manage flaring and venting and the effectiveness of
actions taken.
Topic Standard disclosures
GRI 302: Energy Disclosure 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 11.1.2
2016
Disclosure 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization 11.1.3
Disclosure 302-3 Energy intensity 11.1.4
GRI 305: Disclosure 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 11.1.5
Emissions 2016
Additional sector recommendations
• Report the percentage of gross direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions from CH
4.
• Report the breakdown of gross direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions by type of
source (stationary combustion, process, fugitive).2
Disclosure 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 11.1.6
Disclosure 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 11.1.7
Disclosure 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 11.1.8
References and resources
GRI 302: Energy 2016 and GRI 305: Emissions 2016 list authoritative intergovernmental instruments and additional
references relevant to reporting on this topic.
The additional authoritative instruments and references used in developing this topic, as well as resources that may
be helpful for reporting on the GHG emissions by the oil and gas sector are listed in the Bibliography.
2 This additional sector recommendation is based on clause 2.2.5.3 in GRI 305: Emissions 2016.
16 GRI 11: Oil and Gas Sector 2021
Topic 11.2 Climate adaptation, resilience, and transition
Climate adaptation, resilience, and transition refer to how an organization adjusts to current and anticipated
climate change-related risks, as well as how it contributes to the ability of societies and economies to withstand
impacts from climate change. This topic covers an organization’s strategy in relation to the transition to a low-
carbon economy and the impacts of that transition on workers and local communities.
Signatories of the Paris Agreement have committed to keeping global warming ‘well below 2°C’ [58], yet fossil fuel
reserves that are currently available globally far exceed the maximum amount that can be consumed while remaining
within this limit [78]. This means organizations in the oil and gas sector need to establish targets for carbon
emissions; modify their business models; and invest in renewable energy, technologies to remove CO from the
2
atmosphere [68], and nature-based solutions to mitigate climate change, such as reforestation, afforestation, coastal
and wetland restoration.
Transitioning to a low-carbon economy requires organizations to set emissions targets that are consistent with the
goal of limiting global warming to well below 2°C under the Paris Agreement. Actions to reduce emissions linked to
the process of extracting and distributing oil and gas, which are direct (Scope 1) and energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG
emissions, offer important and immediate opportunities for the sector to contribute to reducing global GHG
emissions. The sector also faces expectations to address other indirect Scope 3 emissions related to the use of oil
and gas products. Actions to reduce these emissions can include, for example, diversification into lower carbon
businesses.
Transitioning to a low-carbon economy also creates uncertainty about the future demand for oil and gas. The
International Energy Agency (IEA) estimates that based on current policies, demand for oil will level off around 2030
while, in some regions, demand for gas will begin decreasing by 2040 [68]. In a scenario that sees the energy
transition accelerate to achieve net-zero GHG emissions by 2050, demand for oil could drop by almost 75% between
2020 and 2050 and demand for gas could peak before 20303 [67]. A decrease in the demand for oil and gas will
translate into lower utilization of existing production facilities and decreased development of reserves. Depending on
the speed of this process, some fields and facilities may need to be re-evaluated or even written-off prematurely,
becoming stranded assets. This will affect oil and gas organizations financially and generate significant impacts for
workers, governments and other stakeholders.
The transition may affect employment, government revenues, and economic development in regions where the sector
operates. More frequent closures are less likely to be counterbalanced by openings, as has been the case in the
past. Workers may face other potential impacts related to employability, reskilling, and desirable re-employment
opportunities. Closure of operations without adequate provisions for decommissioning and rehabilitation may also
result in an economic burden for governments and local communities (see also topic 11.7 Closure and
rehabilitation), particularly in countries where oil and gas production provides a large percentage of revenues.
To achieve a just transition to a low-carbon economy, the different dependency levels of workers, local communities,
and national economies on the oil and gas sector needs to be recognized, and quality jobs for those affected created
[79]. Examples of actions that organizations may take to contribute to a just transition include providing adequate
advance notice of closures; collaborating with governments and unions; advocating for climate consistent policy (see
also topic 11.22 Public policy); retraining, reskilling, and redeploying workers; and making alternative investments in
the affected communities. Meaningful, early consultations with stakeholders and local communities have also been
identified as crucial to achieving a just transition (see also topic 11.7 Closure and rehabilitation).
3 IEA’s Net‐zero by 2050 scenario is designed to show what is needed by various actors by when, for the world to achieve net‐zero energy-related and
industrial process CO emissions by 2050, however it is just one possible pathway to achieve net-zero emissions by 2050 [67].
2
17 GRI 11: Oil and Gas Sector 2021
Box 2. Scenario analysis for climate transition
Scenario analysis is a process that considers alternative situations to assess future outcomes. Organizations
can use it to gauge the potential outcomes of their strategies in uncertain circumstances or conditions.
Scenario analysis can employ various methodologies, qualitative and quantitative. The Task Force on Climate-
related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) recommendations suggest scenario analysis as a way to help
organizations understand climate change-related risks and opportunities [82].
Scenario analysis is well suited to explore the risks that transitioning to a low-carbon economy poses to oil
and gas organizations because it allows them to consider alternative forms of future states simultaneously.
Organizations typically define scenarios according to the speed of transition, expressed in the resulting
average global temperature changes. A scenario compatible with the commitments of countries in the Paris
Agreement will require a temperature rise well below 2ºC. Other scenarios can be defined according to an
organization’s national context. The organization can then translate the expected reductions in GHG emissions
compatible with such a temperature rise into expected revenue.
18 GRI 11: Oil and Gas Sector 2021
Reporting on climate adaptation, resilience, and transition
If the organization has determined climate adaptation, resilience, and transition to be a material topic, this sub-
section lists the disclosures identified as relevant for reporting on the topic by the oil and gas sector.
STANDARD DISCLOSURE SECTOR
STANDARD
REF. NO.
Management of the topic
GRI 3: Material Disclosure 3-3 Management of material topics 11.2.1
Topics 2021
Additional sector recommendations
• Describe policies, commitments, and actions of the organization to prevent or
mitigate the impacts of the transition to a low-carbon economy on workers and
local communities.
• Report the level and function within the organization that has been assigned
responsibility for managing risks and opportunities due to climate change.
• Describe the board’s oversight in managing risks and opportunities due to
climate change.
• Report whether responsibility to manage climate change-related impacts is
linked to performance assessments or incentive mechanisms, including in the
remuneration policies for highest governance body members and senior
executives.
• Describe the climate change-related scenarios used to assess the resilience
of the organization’s strategy, including a 2°C or lower scenario.
Topic Standard disclosures
GRI 201: Disclosure 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to 11.2.2
Economic climate change
Performance
Additional sector recommendations
2016
• Report the emissions potential for proven and probable reserves.4
• Report the internal carbon-pricing and oil and gas pricing assumptions that
have informed the identification of risks and opportunities due to climate
change.
• Describe how climate change-related risks and opportunities affect or could
affect the organization’s operations or revenue, including:
- development of currently proven and probable reserves;
- potential write-offs and early closure of existing assets;
- oil and gas production volumes for the current reporting period and
projected volumes for the next five years.
• Report the percentage of capital expenditure (CapEx) that is allocated to
investments in:
- prospection, exploration, and development of new reserves;
- energy from renewable sources (by type of source);
- technologies to remove CO from the atmosphere and nature-based
2
solutions to mitigate climate change;
- other research and development initiatives that can address the
organization’s risks related to climate change.
• Report net mass of CO in metric tons captured and removed from the
2
atmosphere (CO stored less the GHG emitted in the process).5
2
GRI 305: Disclosure 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 11.2.3
Emissions 2016
Additional sector recommendations
• Report how the goals and targets for GHG emissions are set, specify whether
they are informed by scientific consensus, and list any authoritative
19 GRI 11: Oil and Gas Sector 2021
STANDARD DISCLOSURE SECTOR
STANDARD
REF. NO.
intergovernmental instruments or mandatory legislation the goals and targets
are aligned with.
• Report the Scopes (1, 2, 3) of GHG emissions, activities, and business
relationships to which the goals and targets apply.
• Report the baseline for the goals and targets and the timeline for achieving
them.
Additional sector disclosures
Describe the organization’s approach to public policy development and lobbying on climate change, 11.2.4
including:
• the organization’s stance on significant issues related to climate change that are the focus of its
participation in public policy development and lobbying, and any differences between these
positions and its stated policies, goals, or other public positions;
• whether it is a member of, or contributes to, any representative associations or committees that
participate in public policy development and lobbying on climate change, including:
- the nature of this contribution;
- any differences between the organization’s stated policies, goals, or other public positions on
significant issues related to climate change; and the positions of the representative
associations or committees.6
References and resources
GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016 and GRI 305: Emissions 2016 list authoritative intergovernmental instruments
and additional references relevant to reporting on this topic.
The additional authoritative instruments and references used in developing this topic, as well as resources that may
be helpful for reporting on climate adaptation, resilience, and transition by the oil and gas sector are listed in the
Bibliography.
4 The definition of reserves used by the organization for this additional sector recommendation should be the same as the definition used in its
consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents.
5 The mass of the CO captured using carbon capture and storage less the mass of CO emitted as a result of or during the process, is sometimes
2 2
known as ‘net reduction of emissions’ [69].
6 These additional sector disclosures are based on reporting recommendations 1.2.1 and 1.2.2 in GRI 415: Public Policy 2016.
20 GRI 11: Oil and Gas Sector 2021
Topic 11.3 Air emissions
Air emissions include pollutants that have negative impacts on air quality and ecosystems, including human and
animal health. This topic covers impacts from emissions of sulfur oxides (SO ), nitrogen oxides (NO ), particulate
x x
matter (PM), volatile organic compounds (VOC), carbon monoxide (CO), and heavy metals, such as lead, mercury,
and cadmium.
The activities of the oil and gas sector and the combustion of oil and gas are anthropogenic sources of other air
emissions besides greenhouse gases (GHGs). These include SO , NO , PM, VOCs, hazardous air pollutants (HAP),
x x
such as benzene (C H ) and hydrogen sulfide (H S), and ozone (O ).7
6 6 2 3
These air emissions can be released during production and processing; refining, distribution, and storage. They can
result from activities such as flaring and venting; fuel combustion for powering machinery; and transportation of
supplies and products. Air emissions can also result from evaporation losses, fugitive emissions from equipment
leaks and failures, and process-safety incidents and events. A significant number of air emissions also result from
fuel combustion by end-users.
Globally, air pollution causes acute health problems and millions of deaths annually by contributing to heart and lung
diseases, strokes, respiratory infections, and neurological damage [93]. Children, the elderly, and the poor are
disproportionately affected by these emissions, as are local communities adjacent to operational sites.
Air emissions may lead to widespread and diverse impacts on ecosystems, while affecting other economic activities
that depend on these ecosystems. For example, NO emissions that enter oceans, lakes, or other waterbodies can
x
alter their chemistry, negatively impacting land and aquatic life. NO and SO emissions can lead to acid rain and
x x
increase ocean acidification. These emissions can also cause damage to plant life by, for example, impairing
photosynthesis and reducing growth.
7 The scope of this topic does not include carbon dioxide CO and methane CH , which are reported under GHG emissions.
2 4
21 GRI 11: Oil and Gas Sector 2021
Reporting on air emissions
If the organization has determined air emissions to be a material topic, this sub-section lists the disclosures
identified as relevant for reporting on the topic by the oil and gas sector.
STANDARD DISCLOSURE SECTOR
STANDARD
REF. NO.
Management of the topic
GRI 3: Material Disclosure 3-3 Management of material topics 11.3.1
Topics 2021
Topic Standard disclosures
GRI 305: Disclosure 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NO ), sulfur oxides (SO ), and other significant 11.3.2
X X
Emissions 2016 air emissions
GRI 416: Disclosure 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and 11.3.3
Customer Health service categories
and Safety 2016
Additional sector recommendations
• Describe actions taken to improve product quality to reduce air emissions
References and resources
GRI 305: Emissions 2016 and GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety 2016 list authoritative intergovernmental
instruments and additional references relevant to reporting on this topic.
The additional authoritative instruments and references used in developing this topic, as well as resources that may
be helpful for reporting on air emissions by the oil and gas sector are listed in the Bibliography.
22 GRI 11: Oil and Gas Sector 2021
Topic 11.4 Biodiversity
Biodiversity is the variability among living organisms. It includes diversity within species, between species and of
ecosystems. Biodiversity not only has intrinsic value, but is also vital to human health, food security, economic
prosperity, and mitigation of climate change and adaptation to its impacts. This topic covers impacts on
biodiversity, including on plant and animal species, genetic diversity and natural ecosystems.
Oil and gas activities can be the source of pressures on the environments in which they occur, and have direct,
indirect, and cumulative impacts on biodiversity in the short and long term. Biodiversity impacts from oil and gas
activities include contamination of air, soil and water, soil erosion, and sedimentation of waterways. Other impacts
can include animal mortality or increased vulnerability to predators, habitat fragmentation and conversion, and the
introduction of invasive species and pathogens. Impacts on biodiversity can result in limitations in the availability,
accessibility, or quality of natural resources, which in turn may impact the well-being and livelihoods of local
communities (topic 11.15) and indigenous peoples (topic 11.17). Impacts can be exacerbated when activities occur in
protected areas or areas of high biodiversity value and may extend well beyond the closure and rehabilitation (topic
11.7) of operational sites or geographic boundaries of activities.
Impacts can result from both onshore and offshore activities, such as land clearance; seismic testing and drilling of
exploration wells; construction of assets and facilities, infrastructure, and pipelines; road development and
transportation; water discharge; disposal of drilling waste; spills and leaks. Threats to biodiversity will increase as
easily accessible oil and gas resources are depleted and oil and gas activities move into more remote areas.
The oil and gas sector can also contribute to cumulative impacts on biodiversity. For example, as onshore oil and gas
activities expand into an area, new access routes are installed, which typically require clearing land. This leads to
habitat fragmentation and conversion but can also result in increased use of the area, or even encourage other
sectors to establish operations in the same areas, intensifying impacts. Changes to land use to accommodate the
sector’s activities can exacerbate the effects of climate change if they result in removal of carbon sinks. In turn, climate
change is likely to affect all aspects of biodiversity, including individual organisms, populations, species distribution,
and the composition and function of ecosystems, and the impacts are anticipated to worsen with increasing
temperatures.
To limit and manage its impacts on biodiversity, the oil and gas sector has been developing and, in some cases
already using, a mitigation hierarchy tool that helps inform its actions. The mitigation hierarchy consists of four
sequential steps to reduce the negative impacts of activities on the environment. Priority is given to preventive
measures starting with avoidance of negative impacts and, where avoidance is not possible, to minimization of those
impacts. When negative impacts cannot be avoided or minimized, remediation measures may be used, such as
rehabilitation or restoration of biodiversity. Offsetting measures may also be applied to residual impacts after all other
measures have been applied (see reference [118] in the Bibliography).
23 GRI 11: Oil and Gas Sector 2021
Reporting on biodiversity
If the organization has determined biodiversity to be a material topic, this sub-section lists the disclosures identified
as relevant for reporting on the topic by the oil and gas sector.
STANDARD DISCLOSURE SECTOR
STANDARD
REF. NO.
Management of the topic
GRI 3: Material Disclosure 3-3 Management of material topics 11.4.1
Topics 2021
Additional sector recommendations
• Describe policies and commitments to achieving no net loss or a net gain to
biodiversity on operational sites; and whether these commitments apply to
existing and future operations and to operations beyond areas of high
biodiversity value.
• Report whether application of the mitigation hierarchy has informed actions to
manage biodiversity-related impacts.
Topic Standard disclosures
GRI 304: Disclosure 304-1 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, 11.4.2
Biodiversity 2016 protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas
Disclosure 304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products and services on 11.4.3
biodiversity
Additional sector recommendations
• Report significant impacts on biodiversity with reference to affected habitats
and ecosystems.
Disclosure 304-3 Habitats protected or restored 11.4.4
Additional sector recommendations
• Describe how the application of the mitigation hierarchy, if applicable, has
resulted in:
- areas protected through avoidance measures or offset measures;
- areas restored through on-site restoration measures or offset measures.
Disclosure 304-4 IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species 11.4.5
with habitats in areas affected by operations
References and resources
GRI 304: Biodiversity 2016 lists authoritative intergovernmental instruments and additional references relevant to
reporting on this topic.
The additional authoritative instruments and references used in developing this topic, as well as resources that may
be helpful for reporting on biodiversity by the oil and gas sector are listed in the Bibliography.
24 GRI 11: Oil and Gas Sector 2021
Topic 11.5 Waste
Waste refers to anything that a holder discards, intends to discard, or is required to discard. When inadequately
managed, waste can have negative impacts on the environment and human health, which can extend beyond the
locations where waste is generated and discarded. This topic covers impacts from waste, including as a result of
construction and rehabilitation activities.
Oil and gas activities typically generate high volumes of waste, including hazardous waste. The largest waste
streams derive from the extraction or processing of oil and gas and can consist of drilling muds and cuttings, scale,
and sludges, which in turn, can contain chemical additives, hydrocarbons, metals, naturally occurring radioactive
material (NORM) and salts. These waste streams may contaminate surface water, groundwater, seawater with
chemicals or heavy metals, and negatively impact plant and animal species as well as human health. Impacts can
depend on an organization’s approach to waste management, regulation, and on availability of recovery and disposal
facilities in the proximity of activities.
Waste streams that cannot be reduced, or diverted from disposal, are typically stored, treated or disposed through
various methods. When disposed of in underground injection wells, drilling waste can trigger seismicity or lead to
groundwater contamination. In some offshore operations, drilling fluids might also be discharged into waterways or
the ocean, depending on regulation and the availability of alternative outlets. If waste is disposed of on land or if
hazardous substances from waste storage facilities leach into the ground, other impacts can include contamination
of land, loss of land productivity, and erosion. In remote areas with limited recovery and disposal methods, waste
impacts can be more severe or harder to monitor.
In oil sands mining, the largest waste stream is tailings, a hazardous waste stream produced during the process of
separating oil from sand (see topic 11.8 Asset integrity and critical incident management). Some tailings ponds have
been found to leach chemicals, causing health risks for local communities and wildlife.
When operations end, closure and rehabilitation activities usually involve the final disposal of hazardous chemicals
and managing substantial quantities of materials from disused structures or equipment (see topic 11.7 Closure and
rehabilitation). Other typical wastes from oil and gas activities include waste oils, construction waste, and domestic
and office waste.
Box 3. Use of materials
The type and quantity of materials used by an organization in the oil and gas sector can signify its dependence
on natural resources and its impacts on their availability. Related environmental impacts depend on the
organization’s approach to sourcing, use, and disposal of these materials.
Oil and gas extraction, development, production, and processing activities represent a large proportion of the
sector’s use of materials. Concrete, cement, steel and other metals are necessary to construct offshore
platforms and onshore facilities, as well as for the equipment and infrastructure needed to extract, process
and transport oil and gas (e.g., valves, tubing and pipelines). Large volumes of chemicals are used during
drilling and well completion.
The oil and gas sector has opportunities for efficient use of materials. These include using its significant
purchasing power to create demand for more responsibly produced materials or implementing circularity
measures that aim at reusing or recycling materials from disused structures, such as steel and concrete.
The use of materials is addressed in GRI 301: Materials 2016.
25 GRI 11: Oil and Gas Sector 2021
Reporting on waste
If the organization has determined waste to be a material topic, this sub-section lists the disclosures identified as
relevant for reporting on the topic by the oil and gas sector.
STANDARD DISCLOSURE SECTOR
STANDARD
REF. NO.
Management of the topic
GRI 3: Material Disclosure 3-3 Management of material topics 11.5.1
Topics 2021
Topic Standard disclosures
GRI 306: Waste Disclosure 306-1 Waste generation and significant waste-related impacts 11.5.2
2020
Disclosure 306-2 Management of significant waste-related impacts 11.5.3
Disclosure 306-3 Waste generated 11.5.4
Additional sector recommendations
• When reporting the composition of the waste generated, include a breakdown
of the following waste streams, if applicable:
- Drilling waste (muds and cuttings)
- Scale and sludges
- Tailings
Disclosure 306-4 Waste diverted from disposal 11.5.5
Additional sector recommendations
• When reporting the composition of the waste diverted from disposal, include a
breakdown of the following waste streams, if applicable:
- Drilling waste (muds and cuttings)
- Scale and sludges
- Tailings
Disclosure 306-5 Waste directed to disposal 11.5.6
Additional sector recommendations
• When reporting the composition of the waste directed to disposal, include a
breakdown of the following waste streams, if applicable:
- Drilling waste (muds and cuttings)
- Scale and sludges
- Tailings
References and resources
GRI 306: Waste 2020 lists authoritative intergovernmental instruments and additional references relevant to reporting
on this topic.
The additional authoritative instruments and references used in developing this topic, as well as resources that may
be helpful for reporting on waste by the oil and gas sector are listed in the Bibliography.
26 GRI 11: Oil and Gas Sector 2021
Topic 11.6 Water and effluents
Recognized as a human right, access to fresh water is essential for human life and well-being. The amount of
water withdrawn and consumed by an organization and the quality of its discharges can have impacts on
ecosystems and people. This topic covers impacts related to the withdrawal and consumption of water and the
quality of water discharged.
Oil and gas activities can reduce water availability for local communities and other sectors that also rely
on the resource. They can have impacts on the quality of surface water, groundwater and seawater, which can
translate into long-term impacts on ecosystems and biodiversity (topic 11.4), cause health and development
problems for humans, and impair food security.
Extraction and processing are the oil and gas sector activities that use the largest volumes of water. The quantity of
water required for these activities vary according to the oil and gas extraction method, local geology, and the degree of
processing required. Some extraction or processing methods, including hydraulic fracturing and oil sands mining are
particularly water intensive. The amount of water withdrawn for certain activities also varies according to an
organization’s ability to substitute the use of freshwater, the quality of water required, recycling infrastructure and the
characteristics of local water resources.
Oil and gas organizations may also need to manage large quantities of produced water or process wastewater, which
typically contain hydrocarbons, chemicals, or other hazardous substances. To minimize water impacts, produced
water and process wastewater may be reinjected for well stimulation or reused in other processes. If not, they may be
discharged to surface water, groundwater, seawater, or a third party; dispersed over land; or stored in evaporation
ponds. When discharged, the impacts to water vary according to the sensitivity of the receiving waterbody and the
quality of the water discharged.
Contamination can also result from the injection of drilling fluids into wells and flowback from hydraulic fracturing.
This can cause underground contaminants to seep and pollute groundwater resources. Inefficient treatment of water
discharges, oil spills from transportation accidents, ruptured pipelines or seepage, or failure of an oil sands tailings
dam can also have similar impacts on water quality (see topic 11.8 Asset integrity and critical incident management).
The oil and gas sector’s impacts on water additionally depend on the quantity of local water resources; where water is
scarce, the sector has a greater impact. A large proportion of the world’s oil and gas resources are found in areas that
are arid or experience water stress. In such areas, the sector’s activities are likely to increase competition for water in
demand for other uses – such as for household use and fishing, aquaculture, or agricultural activities. This may
exacerbate tensions between, as well as within, sectors or local communities. Droughts, floods, and other extreme
weather events related to climate change will likely pose more frequent challenges related to water availability and
quality in the future.
27 GRI 11: Oil and Gas Sector 2021
Reporting on water and effluents
If the organization has determined water and effluents to be a material topic, this sub-section lists the disclosures
identified as relevant for reporting on the topic by the oil and gas sector.
STANDARD DISCLOSURE SECTOR
STANDARD
REF. NO.
Management of the topic
GRI 3: Material Disclosure 3-3 Management of material topics 11.6.1
Topics 2021
Topic Standard disclosures
GRI 303: Water Disclosure 303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource 11.6.2
and Effluents
Disclosure 303-2 Management of water discharge-related impacts 11.6.3
2018
Disclosure 303-3 Water withdrawal 11.6.4
Disclosure 303-4 Water discharge 11.6.5
Additional sector recommendations
• Report volume in megaliters of produced water and process wastewater
discharged.
• Report the concentration (mg/L) of hydrocarbons discharged in produced water
and process wastewater.
Disclosure 303-5 Water consumption 11.6.6
References and resources
GRI 303: Water and Effluents 2018 lists authoritative intergovernmental instruments and additional references
relevant to reporting on this topic.
The additional authoritative instruments and references used in developing this topic, as well as resources that may
be helpful for reporting on water and effluents by the oil and gas sector are listed in the Bibliography.
28 GRI 11: Oil and Gas Sector 2021
Topic 11.7 Closure and rehabilitation
At the end of commercial use, organizations are expected to close assets and facilities and rehabilitate
operational sites. Impacts can occur during and after closure. This topic covers an organization’s approach to
closure and rehabilitation, including how the organization considers the impacts on the environment, local
communities, and workers.
Oil and gas facilities can continue to generate environmental impacts after closure, including soil and water
contamination, changes to landforms, and disturbance of biodiversity and wildlife. Closure can also lead to lasting
impacts on local communities. Failure to close facilities and rehabilitate sites effectively can render land unusable for
other productive purposes and can result in health and safety hazards due to contamination or to the presence of
hazardous materials.
Closure and rehabilitation of oil and gas fields can include removal and final disposal of hazardous substances and
chemicals; capping or plugging abandoned wells; dismantling structures and reusing, recycling or disposing
materials. It can also include the management of waste; surface water and groundwater quality issues resulting from
spills and leaks; and restoration of lands to a condition or economic value equivalent to the pre-development state.
Closing oil sands mining sites also involves managing tailings ponds (see also topic 11.8 Asset integrity and critical
incident management).
Several international conventions (see references [168], [169] and [170] in the Bibliography) require decommissioning
and removing all offshore structures at the end of field life. However, these requirements may be subject to different
interpretations across countries, where national regulations or regional conventions can take precedence over
international conventions. As a result, organizations in the oil and gas sector may lack clear rules for filing
decommissioning plans with local governments and taking action on them once offshore structures become
disused.
Decommissioning and dismantling offshore structures can be costly and complex due to their size, weight, and
location. There may be additional complexities and environmental considerations when, for example, structures that
should be removed become part of benthic8 communities and habitats. In some cases, decommissioning can occur
in situ and structures may be left in place. When this happens, impacts can include marine pollution from corrosion,
ecosystem changes, damage to fishing equipment, and navigational hazards to shipping.
The closure and rehabilitation phase may offer additional employment opportunities to local communities. However,
once this phase is completed, workers may be retrenched and local communities may face economic downturn and
social disruption if they have come to depend on the oil and gas sector’s activities for employment as well as for
income, taxes and other payments to governments, community development, and other benefits.
To anticipate potential impacts, planning for closure often requires planning in the early phases of a project. Impacts
from closure can be exacerbated if there is insufficient notice or lack of adequate planning for economic revitalization,
social protection, and labor transition. Without clearly assigned responsible parties or allocated funds, closed oil and
gas facilities can leave a legacy of environmental issues and financial burdens for communities and governments.
The need to reduce GHG emissions and to transition to a low-carbon economy (see topic 11.2 Climate adaptation,
resilience and transition) is expected to lead to more frequent closures. These are less likely to be counterbalanced
by openings, as has been the case in the past. Collaboration between local and national governments and
organizations, as well as with workers and unions, is necessary to mitigate significant impacts and ensure a just
transition.
Technological solutions that would allow repurposing or extending the life of assets after production ceases (e.g.,
using pipelines for CO storage or transport of low-carbon fuels) are being tested, but have yet to be proven effective
2
and economically viable.
8 Benthic is defined by the Merriam-Webster as ”of, relating to, or occurring at the bottom of a body of water, or, of, relating to, or occurring in the
depths of the ocean” [171].
29 GRI 11: Oil and Gas Sector 2021
Reporting on closure and rehabilitation
If the organization has determined closure and rehabilitation to be a material topic, this sub-section lists the
disclosures identified as relevant for reporting on the topic by the oil and gas sector.
STANDARD DISCLOSURE SECTOR
STANDARD
REF. NO.
Management of the topic
GRI 3: Material Disclosure 3-3 Management of material topics 11.7.1
Topics 2021
Topic Standard disclosures
GRI 402: Disclosure 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes 11.7.2
Labor/Management
Additional sector recommendations
Relations 2016
• Describe the approach to engaging workers in advance of significant
operational changes.
GRI 404: Training Disclosure 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition 11.7.3
and Education assistance programs
2016
Additional sector disclosures
List the operational sites that: 11.7.4
• have closure and rehabilitation plans in place;
• have been closed;
• are in the process of being closed.
List the decommissioned structures left in place and describe the rationale for leaving them in place. 11.7.5
Report the total monetary value of financial provisions for closure and rehabilitation made by the 11.7.6
organization, including post-closure monitoring and aftercare for operational sites.
References and resources
GRI 402: Labor/Management Relations 2016 and GRI 404: Training and Education 2016 list authoritative
intergovernmental instruments relevant to reporting on this topic.
The additional authoritative instruments and references used in developing this topic, as well as resources that may
be helpful for reporting on closure and rehabilitation by the oil and gas sector are listed in the Bibliography.
30 GRI 11: Oil and Gas Sector 2021
Topic 11.8 Asset integrity and critical incident management
Asset integrity and critical incident management deal with the prevention and control of incidents that can lead to
fatalities, injuries or ill health, environmental impacts, and damage to local communities and infrastructure. This
topic covers impacts from such incidents and an organization’s approach to managing them.
Critical incidents in the oil and gas sector can have catastrophic consequences for workers, local communities (see
topic 11.9 Occupational health and safety and topic 11.15 Local communities), the environment and cause damage to
organizations’ assets. In addition to fatalities and injuries, these incidents can cause air, soil, and water
contamination. These impacts have the potential to disrupt other economic activities that depend on these natural
resources, such as fishing and agriculture, affecting livelihoods, and compromising food safety and security. They can
also lead to ecosystem and habitat degradation and animal mortality.
Critical incidents related to the oil and gas sector include loss of control or containment of hydrocarbons, well
blowout, explosions, fires, unplanned plant disruption and shutdown, and tailings dam failures from operations
related to oil sands. Oil and gas spills and leaks, for example due to undetected failures in equipment or which occur
during distribution of oil and gas by marine, road, or rail transport or pipelines may pollute the soil and water as well
as harm species (see also topic 11.6 Water and effluents and topic 11.4 Biodiversity). Events or incidents involving
methane and other GHG emissions also contribute to climate change (see topic 11.1 GHG emissions).
Organizations in the oil and gas sector can prevent critical incidents with an effective process safety management
system. Process safety refers to the systematic application of good design, construction, and operating principles to
ensure the safe containment of hazardous materials; it also addresses the sources or factors that lead to potential
incidents. A process safety management system can also limit impacts associated with critical incidents related to
extreme weather events, which are likely to increase in frequency and intensity due to the effects of climate change.
Box 4. Oil sands tailings
Oil sands mining typically uses large amounts of water to separate bitumen from sand. This generates
tailings, which contain large quantities of hazardous waste, including hydrocarbons and heavy metals. On
average, 1.5 barrels of tailings get stored for each barrel of bitumen produced.
Tailings facilities for oil sands mining present considerable asset integrity risks. Available technology to treat
oil sand tailings currently fails to manage this waste effectively. As a result, tailings continue to accumulate in
ponds, which cover increasingly vast areas of land. Poor design or management of tailing ponds can cause
leaks or dam failures, polluting the surrounding surface water, groundwater, or cause critical incidents that
may have severe impacts on the local environment and communities.
31 GRI 11: Oil and Gas Sector 2021
Reporting on asset integrity and critical incident management
If the organization has determined asset integrity and critical incident management to be a material topic, this sub-
section lists the disclosures identified as relevant for reporting on the topic by the oil and gas sector.
STANDARD DISCLOSURE SECTOR
STANDARD
REF. NO.
Management of the topic
GRI 3: Material Disclosure 3-3 Management of material topics 11.8.1
Topics 2021
Topic Standard disclosures
GRI 306: Disclosure 306-3 Significant spills9 11.8.2
Effluents and
Additional sector recommendations
Waste 2016
• For each significant spill, report the cause of the spill and the volume of spill
recovered.
Additional sector disclosures
Report the total number of Tier 1 and Tier 2 process safety events, and a breakdown of this total by 11.8.3
business activity (e.g., exploration, development, production, closure and rehabilitation, refining,
processing, transportation, storage).10
The following additional sector disclosures are for organizations with oil sands mining operations. 11.8.4
• List the organization’s tailings facilities.
• For each tailings facility:
- describe the tailings facility;
- report whether the facility is active, inactive, or closed;
- report the date and main findings of the most recent risk assessment.
• Describe actions taken to:
- manage impacts from tailings facilities, including during closure and post-closure;
- prevent catastrophic failures of tailings facilities.11
References and resources
GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016 lists authoritative intergovernmental instruments and additional references
relevant to reporting on this topic.
The additional authoritative instruments and references used in developing this topic, as well as resources that may
be helpful for reporting on asset integrity and critical incident management by the oil and gas sector are listed in the
Bibliography.
9 The effluents-related content of the GRI Standard GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016 has been superseded by GRI Standard GRI 303: Water and
Effluents 2018, and the waste-related content has been superseded by GRI 306: Waste 2020. The spills-related content in GRI 306: Effluents and Waste
2016 remains in effect.
10 Definitions for Tier 1 and Tier 2 process safety events can be found in the API Recommended Practice 754, Process Safety Performance Indicators for
the Refining and Petrochemical Industries [179]. API RP 754 focuses on refining and petrochemical operations but can be applied more widely.
11 Definitions for tailings facility and catastrophic failure can be found in the Global Industry Standard on Tailings Management (GISTM) [186].
32 GRI 11: Oil and Gas Sector 2021
Topic 11.9 Occupational health and safety
Healthy and safe work conditions are recognized as a human right. Occupational health and safety involves the
prevention of physical and mental harm to workers and promotion of workers’ health. This topic covers impacts
related to workers’ health and safety.
Many work-related hazards are associated with activities undertaken in the oil and gas sector, such as working with
heavy machinery and exposure to or handling of explosive, flammable, poisonous, or harmful substances. Despite
efforts to eliminate work-related hazards and improve workers’ health and well-being, work-related injuries and ill
health, including fatalities, are still prevalent in the sector.
Hazards associated with the activities of the oil and gas sector have the potential to result in high-consequence work-
related injuries. Transportation incidents, which can occur when workers and equipment are transported to and from
wells, offshore rigs and other facilities, are the most common source of fatalities and injuries in the sector. Other
major hazards include fire and explosions, which can originate from flammable gases or liquids during oil and gas
production and transportation, and electrical hazards associated with high-voltage systems used in exploration and
production facilities or equipment. Falling structures, faulty handling of heavy machinery, or malfunctioning electrical,
hydraulic, or mechanical installations can result in incidents categorized as ‘struck-by’, ‘caught-in’, or ‘caught-
between’. Workers may also be at risk of injuries from slips, trips, and falls when accessing high platforms and
equipment.
Hazards associated with the oil and gas sector that have the potential to result in ill health can be biological,
chemical, ergonomic, or physical in origin. Commonly reported chemical hazards include respirable crystalline silica,
which is released during hydraulic fracturing, for example, and can cause silicosis and lung cancer. Hydrogen sulfide
released from oil and gas wells and harmful hydrocarbon gases and vapors are other commonly reported hazards.
The sector’s activities also involve working in confined spaces, which may contain a high concentration of gases,
such as carbon monoxide, methane, and nitrogen, that can lead to poisoning or asphyxiation. Physical and
ergonomic hazards in the sector include extreme temperatures, harmful levels of radiation, and harmful levels of
machinery noise or vibration, which can cause hearing impairment or loss and musculoskeletal disorders. Biological
hazards prevalent in the sector include communicable diseases present in the local community or diseases due to
poor hygiene and poor quality of food or water.
Hazards related to common employment practices (topic 11.10) in the oil and gas sector can increase the risk of
fatigue, strain, or stress and impact physical, psychological, and social health. These practices include fly-in fly-out
(FIFO) work arrangements, working and living in different locations, rotational work, long shifts, long travel times, living
in the workplace, interrupted rest, irregular working hours, and solitary work. Workers may also experience
psychological reactions, such as post-traumatic stress disorder following a major incident. In addition, workplaces
characterized by gender imbalance can contribute to increased stress, discrimination, or sexual harassment (see
also topic 11.11 Non-discrimination and equal opportunity).
The oil and gas sector makes extensive use of suppliers, some of which may undertake activities considered among
the most dangerous. Occupational health and safety management systems may not cover suppliers’ workers in the
same way employees are covered. Suppliers’ workers operating on the premises of organizations in the sector may
be less familiar with the workplace and the organization’s health and safety practices or less committed to those
practices. Other workers in the organization’s supply chain may be subject to lower occupational health and safety
standards.
33 GRI 11: Oil and Gas Sector 2021
Reporting on occupational health and safety
If the organization has determined occupational health and safety to be a material topic, this sub-section lists the
disclosures identified as relevant for reporting on the topic by the oil and gas sector.
STANDARD DISCLOSURE SECTOR
STANDARD
REF. NO.
Management of the topic
GRI 3: Material Disclosure 3-3 Management of material topics 11.9.1
Topics 2021
Topic Standard disclosures
GRI 403: Disclosure 403-1 Occupational health and safety management system 11.9.2
Occupational
Disclosure 403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident 11.9.3
Health and
investigation
Safety 2018
Disclosure 403-3 Occupational health services 11.9.4
Disclosure 403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and communication on 11.9.5
occupational health and safety
Disclosure 403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety 11.9.6
Disclosure 403-6 Promotion of worker health 11.9.7
Disclosure 403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and safety 11.9.8
impacts directly linked by business relationships
Disclosure 403-8 Workers covered by an occupational health and safety 11.9.9
management system
Disclosure 403-9 Work-related injuries 11.9.10
Disclosure 403-10 Work-related ill health 11.9.11
References and resources
GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2018 lists authoritative intergovernmental instruments and additional
references relevant to reporting on this topic.
The additional authoritative instruments and references used in developing this topic, as well as resources that may
be helpful for reporting on occupational health and safety by the oil and gas sector are listed in the Bibliography.
34 GRI 11: Oil and Gas Sector 2021
Topic 11.10 Employment practices
Employment practices refer to an organization’s approach to job creation, terms of employment and working
conditions for its workers. This topic also covers the employment and working conditions in an organization’s
supply chain.
The oil and gas sector generates employment opportunities across the value chain. This can have positive
socioeconomic impacts on communities, countries, and regions. While the sector usually offers well-paid
opportunities for skilled workers, employment practices in the sector are also associated with negative impacts.
Examples include impacts related to disparities in working conditions for contract workers, ineffective labor-
management consultations, and job insecurity.
Many jobs in the oil and gas sector have complex shift patterns, involving long shifts and night shifts, to ensure
continuity of operations around the clock. This can cause high levels of fatigue and augment risks related to health
and safety (see topic 11.9 Occupational health and safety) if organizations do not provide for sufficient rest time.
Organizations in the oil and gas sector may also use fly-in fly-out (FIFO) work arrangements, in which workers are
flown to operational sites for several weeks at a time and often required to work extended shifts. Workers on marine
vessels can also be at risk of remaining at sea for extended periods of time. Irregular work shifts and schedules, time
spent away from families, and potentially limited communication facilities can further impact workers’ physical,
psychological, and/or social health.
Various activities in the oil and gas sector are outsourced to suppliers. This is common during peak periods, such as
during construction or maintenance works, or for specific activities, such as catering, drilling, security, and
transportation. Outsourcing activities and using workers employed by suppliers could allow organizations in the oil
and gas sector to reduce their labor costs or to bypass collective agreements that are in place for employees (see
also topic 11.13 Freedom of association and collective bargaining).
Compared to employees, workers employed by suppliers commonly have less favorable employment conditions,
lower remuneration, less training, higher accident rates, and less job security. They often lack social protection and
access to grievance mechanisms. Workers beyond the first tiers of business relationships in organizations’ supply
chains may also be subject to low standards for working conditions, exposing organizations in the oil and gas sector
to human rights violations through their business relationships (see also topic 11.12 Forced labor and modern
slavery).
Employment terms can vary between local workers, migrant workers, and contract workers. Remuneration for these
groups of workers may be unequal, while benefits, such as bonuses, housing allowances, and private insurance
plans, may only be offered to some migrant workers. Lack of relevant skills, knowledge, or accessible training
programs can also restrict local communities from accessing employment opportunities created by the oil and gas
sector (see also topic 11.14 Economic impacts).
Job security is also a concern in the oil and gas sector. Closure (topic 11.7) or oil price drops can occur suddenly,
leading to job losses and increasing pressure on remaining workers. Low job security is further compounded by
automation and changing business models, such as changes triggered by the transition to a low-carbon economy.
Organizations in the sector can support workers by planning for a just transition, including implementing timely
measures that aim to develop their skills and improve their employability in other sectors.
35 GRI 11: Oil and Gas Sector 2021
Reporting on employment practices
If the organization has determined employment practices to be a material topic, this sub-section lists the disclosures
identified as relevant for reporting on the topic by the oil and gas sector.
STANDARD DISCLOSURE SECTOR
STANDARD
REF. NO.
Management of the topic
GRI 3: Material Disclosure 3-3 Management of material topics 11.10.1
Topics 2021
Topic Standard disclosures
GRI 401: Disclosure 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 11.10.2
Employment 2016
Disclosure 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided 11.10.3
to temporary or part-time employees
Disclosure 401-3 Parental leave 11.10.4
GRI 402: Disclosure 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes 11.10.5
Labor/Management
Relations 2016
GRI 404: Training Disclosure 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 11.10.6
and Education
Disclosure 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition 11.10.7
2016
assistance programs
GRI 414: Supplier Disclosure 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria 11.10.8
Social Assessment
Disclosure 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 11.10.9
2016
References and resources
GRI 401: Employment 2016, GRI 402: Labor/Management Relations 2016, GRI 404: Training and Education 2016,
and GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 2016 list authoritative intergovernmental instruments and additional
references relevant to reporting on this topic.
The additional authoritative instruments and references used in developing this topic, as well as resources that may
be helpful for reporting on employment practices by the oil and gas sector are listed in the Bibliography.
36 GRI 11: Oil and Gas Sector 2021
Topic 11.11 Non-discrimination and equal opportunity
Freedom from discrimination is a human right and a fundamental right at work. Discrimination can impose
unequal burdens on individuals or deny fair opportunities on the basis of individual merit. This topic covers
impacts from discrimination and practices related to diversity, inclusion, and equal opportunity.
The conditions, locations, necessary skills, and types of work associated with the oil and gas sector can be a barrier
for entry, hinder employee diversity, and result in discrimination. Discriminatory practices can impede access to jobs
and career development, as well as lead to inequalities in treatment, remuneration, and benefits.
Documented cases of discrimination in the oil and gas sector concern race, color, sex, gender, disability, religion,
national extraction, and worker status. For example, jobseekers from local communities may be excluded from the
hiring process because of a recruitment system bias that favors a dominant ethnic group or utilizes migrant workers.
Compared to some migrant workers, local workers may receive significantly lower pay for equal work. The sector's
widespread use of contract workers, often with differing terms of employment, can also be conducive to
discrimination.
The oil and gas sector is characterized by a significant gender imbalance. In many countries, the percentage of
women working in this sector is significantly lower than the percentage of women working overall nationwide. Women
are also significantly underrepresented in senior management positions. One cause of this imbalance may be that
fewer women graduate with degrees pertinent to the sector, such as in science, technology, engineering, and
mathematics. Other barriers for women and primary caregivers include fly-in fly-out (FIFO) work arrangements, long
hours, and limited parental leave. Social or cultural customs, beliefs, and biases can also limit women’s access to
jobs in this sector or prevent them from taking on specific roles. In addition, some resource-rich countries have laws
that prevent women from working in hazardous or arduous occupations.
Understanding how specific groups may be subject to discrimination across different locations where organizations
in the oil and gas sector operate can help organizations effectively address discriminatory practices. Other measures,
such as providing specific training to workers on preventing discrimination can help address impacts related to
discrimination and create a respectful workplace.
37 GRI 11: Oil and Gas Sector 2021
Reporting on non-discrimination and equal opportunity
If the organization has determined non-discrimination and equal opportunity to be a material topic, this sub-section
lists the disclosures identified as relevant for reporting on the topic by the oil and gas sector.
STANDARD DISCLOSURE SECTOR
STANDARD
REF. NO.
Management of the topic
GRI 3: Material Disclosure 3-3 Management of material topics 11.11.1
Topics 2021
Topic Standard disclosures
GRI 202: Market Disclosure 202-2 Proportion of senior management hired from the local 11.11.2
Presence 2016 community
GRI 401: Disclosure 401-3 Parental leave 11.11.3
Employment
2016
GRI 404: Training Disclosure 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 11.11.4
and Education
2016
GRI 405: Diversity Disclosure 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 11.11.5
and Equal
Disclosure 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration 11.11.6
Opportunity 2016
GRI 406: Non- Disclosure 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 11.11.7
discrimination
2016
References and resources
GRI 202: Market Presence 2016, GRI 401: Employment 2016, GRI 404: Training and Education 2016, GRI 405:
Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016, and GRI 406: Non-discrimination 2016 list authoritative intergovernmental
instruments relevant to reporting on this topic.
The additional authoritative instruments and references used in developing this topic, as well as resources that may
be helpful for reporting on non-discrimination and equal opportunity by the oil and gas sector are listed in the
Bibliography.
38 GRI 11: Oil and Gas Sector 2021
Topic 11.12 Forced labor and modern slavery
Forced labor is defined as all work or service which is exacted from any person under the menace of penalty and
for which a person has not offered themselves voluntarily. Freedom from forced labor is a human right and a
fundamental right at work. This topic covers an organization’s approach to identifying and addressing forced
labor and modern slavery.
As part of a global effort, several governments have issued legislation requiring public reporting on addressing
traditional and emerging practices of forced labor, including modern slavery. Such legislation applies to many
organizations in the oil and gas sector.
The large number of suppliers that organizations in the oil and gas sector interact with may include those operating in
countries with low rates of enforcement of human rights and those lacking the capacity to prevent and mitigate
negative human rights impacts within their own supply chains. Through their supply chains, oil and gas organizations
may therefore be involved with violations of human rights and other instances of exploitation. Oil and gas
organizations may also be involved with incidences of forced labor and modern slavery as a result of their joint
ventures and other business relationships, including those with state-owned enterprises in countries where
international human rights violations are documented. Conducting due diligence within the large and complex supply
chains that commonly exist in the sector may also pose difficulties for detecting and addressing incidents of forced
labor and modern slavery.
Documented cases have shown forced labor and modern slavery in the supply of services to oil fields and offshore
platforms, such as in catering, cleaning, construction, maintenance, and waste management, as well as in marine
and land transportation activities. For example, a higher risk of human rights violations may be found aboard ships
registered in countries other than the country of the ship’s beneficial owner. In such cases, layers of management
and the use of external crewing companies can obscure accountability for ensuring respect of human rights. In other
situations, inadequate arrangements by the employer to cover flight costs or facilitate border-crossing requirements
at the end of a contract period have left ship workers stranded onboard and vulnerable to exploitation. Offshore oil and
gas workers can also be at higher risk of forced labor due to the isolation of extraction sites, making it challenging for
organizations in the sector to reinforce measures countering exploitation. Migrant workers can also face higher risks
of modern slavery when dealing with third-party employment agencies, such as those who have been found to
overcharge workers for visas and flights or to demand recruitment costs be paid by employees rather than employers.
Box 5. Impacts on children’s rights
The risk of child labor in the oil and gas sector arises mainly through an organization’s business relationships
and complex supply chains. Child labor may occur in activities that service the oil and gas sector or its workers
(e.g., child labor in hospitality services or in specific sector activities, such as the manufacturing). Suppliers
may operate in countries with minimum working ages that are below the minimum age set by the International
Labour Organization.
Other impacts on children’s rights and well-being can result from the proximity of an oil or gas project to local
communities (topic 11.15). These impacts can include sexual violence, environmental impacts, or impacts
resulting from land use and resettlement. Parents’ working conditions, including irregular working hours, long
shifts, and fly-in fly-out (FIFO) arrangements, can also have impacts on children (see also topic 11.10
Employment practices).
Child labor is addressed in GRI 408: Child Labor 2016.
39 GRI 11: Oil and Gas Sector 2021
Reporting on forced labor and modern slavery
If the organization has determined forced labor and modern slavery to be a material topic, this sub-section lists the
disclosures identified as relevant for reporting on the topic by the oil and gas sector.
STANDARD DISCLOSURE SECTOR
STANDARD
REF. NO.
Management of the topic
GRI 3: Material Disclosure 3-3 Management of material topics 11.12.1
Topics 2021
Topic Standard disclosures
GRI 409: Forced Disclosure 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of 11.12.2
or Compulsory forced or compulsory labor
Labor 2016
GRI 414: Supplier Disclosure 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria 11.12.3
Social
Assessment
2016
References and resources
GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labor 2016 and GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 2016 list authoritative
intergovernmental instruments and additional references relevant to reporting on this topic.
The additional authoritative instruments and references used in developing this topic, as well as resources that may
be helpful for reporting on forced labor and modern slavery by the oil and gas sector are listed in the Bibliography.
40 GRI 11: Oil and Gas Sector 2021
Topic 11.13 Freedom of association and collective bargaining
Freedom of association and collective bargaining are human rights and fundamental rights at work. They include
the rights of employers and workers to form, join, and run their own organizations without prior authorization or
interference, and to collectively negotiate working conditions and terms of employment. This topic covers an
organization’s approach and impacts related to freedom of association and collective bargaining.
Workers’ rights to organize and to take collective action are critical for supporting and improving working conditions in
the oil and gas sector, including conditions relating to occupational health and safety (topic 11.9), wages, and job
security. These rights can also enable public debate about the sector’s governance and practices as well as aid in
reducing social inequality.
Many jobs associated with the oil and gas sector have traditionally been represented by trade unions and covered by
collective bargaining agreements. However, some oil and gas resources are located in countries where these rights
are restricted. Workers in such locations face risks when seeking to join trade unions and engage in collective
bargaining. Even in countries where unions are legal, existing restrictions might prevent effective worker
representation, and workers who join unions may face intimidation or unfair treatment. In cases where freedom of
association and collective bargaining are restricted, organizations in the oil and gas sector may employ alternative
means of worker representation and engagement.
Documented cases of interference with freedom of association and collective bargaining in the sector include
detention of managers and other employees, invasion of privacy, not adhering to collective agreements, and
preventing trade union access to workplaces to assist workers. Other documented cases include refusal to bargain in
good faith with workers’ chosen trade unions, unfair dismissal of trade union members and leaders, and unilateral
cancellation of collective bargaining agreements.
Widely used in the oil and gas sector, contract workers are often excluded from the scope of collective bargaining
agreements. As a result, contract workers commonly have less favorable employment conditions and lower
remuneration compared to employees (see also topic 11.10 Employment practices).
Box 6. Freedom of association and civic space
Freedom of association and peaceful assembly are human rights. These rights give workers, through their
trade unions, and citizens, through independent civil society, the freedom to speak about the oil and gas
sector’s policies and organizations’ practices without interference.
Restrictions imposed on civic space, which is the environment that enables civil society to contribute to
decisions that affect individual lives, can limit citizens’ ability to engage in public debate about the sector’s
policies and organizations’ practices.
41 GRI 11: Oil and Gas Sector 2021
Reporting on freedom of association and collective bargaining
If the organization has determined freedom of association and collective bargaining to be a material topic, this sub-
section lists the disclosures identified as relevant for reporting on the topic by the oil and gas sector.
STANDARD DISCLOSURE SECTOR
STANDARD
REF. NO.
Management of the topic
GRI 3: Material Disclosure 3-3 Management of material topics 11.13.1
Topics 2021
Topic Standard disclosures
GRI 407: Disclosure 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of 11.13.2
Freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at risk
Association and
Collective
Bargaining 2016
References and resources
GRI 407: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 2016 lists authoritative intergovernmental instruments
relevant to reporting on this topic.
The additional authoritative instruments and references used in developing this topic, as well as resources that may
be helpful for reporting on freedom of association and collective bargaining by the oil and gas sector are listed in the
Bibliography.
42 GRI 11: Oil and Gas Sector 2021
Topic 11.14 Economic impacts
An organization’s impacts on the economy refers to how the value it generates affects economic systems. For
example, as a result of its procurement practices and employment of workers. Infrastructure investments and
services supported by an organization can also have impacts on a community’s well-being and long-term
development. This topic covers economic impacts at local, national, and global levels.
Oil and gas activities can be an important source of investment and income for local communities, countries, and
regions. Impacts can vary according to the scale of operations and the importance of the activity in the economic
context. In some resource-rich countries, revenues from the oil and gas sector are a significant source of income.
However, mismanagement of these revenues can also be harmful to economic performance and lead to
macroeconomic instability and distortions (see topic 11.21 Payments to governments and topic 11.20 Anti-corruption).
Economies dependent on oil and gas can also be vulnerable to commodity price and production fluctuations.
The oil and gas sector can have positive impacts by providing revenues, derived from paying taxes and royalties, and
by investing in infrastructure, such as power utilities that improve access to energy or public services. The sector can
also have positive impacts through local employment and local procurement. Skills development of local
communities through education and training can help increase access to jobs in the sector. Local employment, in
turn, can lead to increased purchasing power and positive impacts on local businesses. Local procurement of
products and services can also help supplier development.
The extent to which local communities stand to benefit from the presence of oil and gas activities depends on the
existing development and industrialization levels of the communities, the communities’ capacity to offer qualified
workers for the new employment opportunities, and the commitment of organizations in the oil and gas sector to train
local workers. The net employment impacts also depend on how employment by the oil and gas sector affects
existing employment in other sectors and organizations’ employment practices (topic 11.10). For example, a fly-in fly-
out (FIFO) work arrangement can offset pressures associated with influxes of people to small communities while still
supplying the necessary workers (see also topic 11.15 Local communities). However, this arrangement reduces the
employment opportunities available to local communities, detracting from the potential economic benefits.
The introduction of new oil and gas activities can generate negative impacts on local communities, such as economic
disparity, with vulnerable groups often being disproportionately affected (see also topic 11.17 Rights of indigenous
peoples). Small local suppliers that depend on larger oil and gas organizations for their income generation may face
challenges in cases of extended payment delays or pressures to deliver services and products at decreased rates.
An influx of external workers can increase pressure on housing, infrastructure, and public services. Local
communities may also have to deal with environmental legacy costs or ineffective rehabilitation after closure (see
also topic 11.8 Asset integrity and critical incident management and topic 11.7 Closure and rehabilitation).
The transition to a low-carbon economy is expected to lead to decreased activity in the oil and gas sector (see also
topic 11.2 Climate adaptation, resilience, and transition), making communities and countries that depend on the
sector for revenues or employment more vulnerable to the resulting economic downturn. In these cases, collaboration
between local and national governments and organizations in the sector is essential to ensure a just transition.
43 GRI 11: Oil and Gas Sector 2021
Reporting on economic impacts
If the organization has determined economic impacts to be a material topic, this sub-section lists the disclosures
identified as relevant for reporting on the topic by the oil and gas sector.
STANDARD DISCLOSURE SECTOR
STANDARD
REF. NO.
Management of the topic
GRI 3: Material Disclosure 3-3 Management of material topics 11.14.1
Topics 2021
Additional sector recommendations
• Describe the community development programs in place that are intended to
enhance positive impacts for local communities, including the approach to
providing employment, procurement, and training opportunities.
Topic Standard disclosures
GRI 201: Disclosure 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 11.14.2
Economic
Additional sector recommendations
Performance
2016 • Report direct economic value generated and distributed (EVG&D) by project.
GRI 202: Market Disclosure 202-2 Proportion of senior management hired from the local 11.14.3
Presence 2016 community
GRI 203: Indirect Disclosure 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported 11.14.4
Economic
Disclosure 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts 11.14.5
Impacts 2016
GRI 204: Disclosure 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers 11.14.6
Procurement
Practices 2016
References and resources
GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016 and GRI 202: Market Presence 2016 list authoritative intergovernmental
instruments and additional references relevant to reporting on this topic.
The additional authoritative instruments and references used in developing this topic, as well as resources that may
be helpful for reporting on economic impacts by the oil and gas sector are listed in the Bibliography.
44 GRI 11: Oil and Gas Sector 2021
Topic 11.15 Local communities
Local communities comprise individuals living or working in areas that are affected or that could be affected by
an organization’s activities. An organization is expected to conduct community engagement to understand the
vulnerabilities of local communities and how they may be affected by the organization’s activities. This topic
covers socioeconomic, cultural, health, and human rights impacts on local communities.
Organizations in the oil and gas sector can have positive economic impacts on local communities through
employment and local procurement, taxes, or other payments to local governments, as well as through community
development programs and investments in infrastructure or public services (see also topic 11.14 Economic impacts,
topic 11.10 Employment practices, and topic 11.21 Payments to governments).
Activities of the oil and gas sector can also lead to negative impacts on local communities. Negative impacts can
result from, for example, land use requirements for the sector’s activities, an influx of people seeking employment and
economic opportunities, environmental degradation, exposure to hazardous substances, and use of natural
resources. When operating in areas of pre-existing conflict or where negative impacts from oil and gas activities are
not addressed, conflicts can arise or become exacerbated (see also topic 11.18 Conflict and security). Vulnerable
groups, including women and indigenous peoples, may be disproportionally affected by these impacts.
The oil and gas sector’s land use can compete with other land use demands, such as for farming, fishing, or
recreation. In addition, it can disrupt traditional livelihoods and increase the risk of impoverishment. It can eventually
lead to displacement, which results in additional impacts such as restrictions on access to essential services, and
impacts on human rights (see topic 11.16 Land and resource rights). The activities of the sector can also result in
damage to cultural heritage sites, potentially leading to loss of tradition, culture, or cultural identity, especially among
indigenous peoples (see also topic 11.17 Rights of indigenous peoples).
The influx of workers from the surrounding areas or as a result of use of fly-in fly-out (FIFO) arrangements, particularly
during the construction, maintenance, and closure and rehabilitation phases of oil and gas projects might lead to
greater economic inequality within the local community. A large-scale influx of workers can place local services and
resources under pressure, induce inflation, and introduce new communicable diseases. Higher housing costs may
lead to an increase in homelessness, especially among vulnerable groups. There may be an increase in activities
that compromise social order, such as substance abuse, gambling, and prostitution, especially affecting vulnerable
groups. The influx of predominantly male workers can change the gender balance of local communities. This can
impact women in particular, as it can lead to a rise in sexual violence and trafficking. Documented cases have also
shown domestic and gender-based violence, both on operational sites and in local communities.
Oil and gas activities can generate air, soil, and water pollution; increased levels of traffic, noise, light, and odors;
waste streams and leaks; and dust. Activities may also cause incidents such as explosions, fires, spills, and tailings
dam or pipeline failures (see also topic 11.8 Asset integrity and critical incident management). Documented cases
have also shown that seismic activity induced by hydraulic fracturing can affect local communities.
Effective local community engagement, grievance mechanisms, and other remediation processes can help
organizations in the oil and gas sector prevent and mitigate the impacts of their activities. In their absence, the
concerns of the community might not be understood or addressed, which can create negative impacts or exacerbate
existing problems, such as gender inequality. Establishing or participating in grievance mechanisms and other
remediation processes that are tailored to the specific needs of local communities can also help organizations
address actual or potential negative impacts.
45 GRI 11: Oil and Gas Sector 2021
Reporting on local communities
If the organization has determined local communities to be a material topic, this sub-section lists the disclosures
identified as relevant for reporting on the topic by the oil and gas sector.
STANDARD DISCLOSURE SECTOR
STANDARD
REF. NO.
Management of the topic
GRI 3: Material Disclosure 3-3 Management of material topics 11.15.1
Topics 2021
Additional sector recommendations
• Describe the approach to identifying stakeholders within local communities
and to engaging with them.
• List the vulnerable groups that the organization has identified within local
communities.
• List any collective or individual rights that the organization has identified that
are of particular concern for local communities.12
• Describe the approach to engaging with vulnerable groups, including:
- how it seeks to ensure meaningful engagement; and
- how it seeks to ensure safe and equitable gender participation.
Topic Standard disclosures
GRI 413: Local Disclosure 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact 11.15.2
Communities assessments, and development programs
2016
Disclosure 413-2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts 11.15.3
on local communities
Additional sector recommendations
• Describe impacts on the health of local communities as a result of exposure to
pollution caused by operations or use of hazardous substances.
Additional sector disclosures
Report the number and type of grievances from local communities identified, including: 11.15.4
• percentage of the grievances that were addressed and resolved;
• percentage of the grievances that were resolved through remediation.
References and resources
GRI 413: Local Communities 2016 lists authoritative intergovernmental instruments and additional references
relevant to reporting on this topic.
The additional authoritative instruments and references used in developing this topic, as well as resources that may
be helpful for reporting on local communities by the oil and gas sector are listed in the Bibliography.
12 These additional sector recommendations are based on the guidance to clause 1.1 in GRI 413: Local Communities 2016.
46 GRI 11: Oil and Gas Sector 2021
Topic 11.16 Land and resource rights
Land and resource rights encompass the rights to use, manage and control land, fisheries, forests, and other
natural resources. An organization’s impacts on the availability and accessibility of these can affect local
communities and other users. This topic covers impacts from an organization’s use of land and natural
resources on human rights and tenure rights, including from resettlement of local communities.
Oil and gas activities require access to land for prospecting, exploration, extraction, construction, waste storage and
disposal, processing, transportation, and distribution of products. This can sometimes lead to displacement of other
land users, restricted access to resources, and involuntary resettlement of local communities. Impacts from land use
vary according to methods of extraction, resource location, the processing required, and transportation methods. For
example, onshore oil and gas pipelines can have a large footprint due to their length and safety buffer zones.
Unclear rules regarding tenure rights to access, use, and control land, often lead to disputes, economic and social
tensions, and conflict. Insufficient consultation with, and inadequate compensation to affected communities can also
exacerbate tensions and conflict. For example, the relationship between mineral rights and land rights might be
unclear; formal statutory tenure rules might overlap or conflict with traditional customary rules; legitimate rights may
not be recognized or enforced; or people may lack formal documentation of their rights to land.
Involuntary resettlement of local communities can involve physical displacement (e.g., relocation or shelter loss) and
economic displacement (e.g., loss or access to assets), having impacts on people’s livelihoods and human rights. In
such cases, organizations in the oil and gas sector may provide local communities with monetary compensation or
land that is equivalent to the lost assets. However, determining the value of local communities’ access to the natural
environment is complex. It includes consideration of income-generating activities, human health, and non-material
aspects of quality of life, such as the loss of cultural or recreational opportunities. The amount of compensation
provided may therefore not be equivalent to the loss borne. In some cases, customary titleholders to the land may not
be compensated at all or only for crops that they were cultivating on the land but not for the land itself.
Community members resisting resettlement may also face threats and intimidation, violent, repressive, or life-
threatening removal from lands (see also topic 11.18 Conflict and security).
Addressing impacts on land and resource rights typically requires extensive and meaningful engagement between
organizations in the oil and gas sector and local communities, including vulnerable groups. In cases of ineffective
community consultation or in the absence of free, prior, and informed consent (FPIC), impacts on resettling
communities or existing problems within a community can be exacerbated by an inadequate resettlement process or
lack of transparency (see also topic 11.15 Local communities and topic 11.17 Rights of indigenous peoples).
Community consultations may also fail to include all affected members. Women, for example, are often excluded from
decision-making processes related to the development a new project.
47 GRI 11: Oil and Gas Sector 2021
Reporting on land and resource rights
If the organization has determined land and resource rights to be a material topic, this sub-section lists the
disclosures identified as relevant for reporting on the topic by the oil and gas sector.
STANDARD DISCLOSURE SECTOR
STANDARD
REF. NO.
Management of the topic
GRI 3: Material Disclosure 3-3 Management of material topics 11.16.1
Topics 2021
Additional sector recommendations
• Describe the approach to engaging with affected vulnerable groups, including:
- how the organization seeks to ensure engagement is meaningful;
- how the organization seeks to ensure safe and equitable gender
participation.
• Describe the approach to providing remediation to local communities or
individuals subject to involuntary resettlement, such as the process for
establishing compensation for loss of assets or other assistance to improve
or restore standards of living or livelihoods.
Additional sector disclosures
List the locations of operations that caused or contributed to involuntary resettlement or where such 11.16.2
resettlement is ongoing. For each location, describe how peoples’ livelihoods and human rights were
affected and restored.
References and resources
The authoritative instruments and references used in developing this topic, as well as resources that may be helpful
for reporting on land and resource rights by the oil and gas sector are listed in the Bibliography.
48 GRI 11: Oil and Gas Sector 2021
Topic 11.17 Rights of indigenous peoples
Indigenous peoples are at higher risk of experiencing negative impacts more severely as a result of an
organization’s activities. Indigenous peoples have both collective and individual rights, as set out in the United
Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples and other authoritative international human rights
instruments. This topic covers impacts on the rights of indigenous peoples.
The presence of the oil and gas sector in proximity to indigenous communities can present economic opportunities
and benefits for indigenous peoples through employment, training, and community development programs (see also
topic 11.14 Economic impacts). However, it can also disrupt indigenous peoples’ cultural, spiritual, and economic
ties to their lands or natural environments, compromise their rights and well-being, and cause displacement (see
also topic 11.16 Land and resource rights). It can also have an impact on the availability of and access to water, which
is a key concern for many indigenous communities.
The collective and individual rights of indigenous peoples are recognized in authoritative international instruments.
Indigenous peoples also often have a special legal status in national legislation and can be customary or legal
owners of lands to which organizations in the oil and gas sector are granted use rights by governments. Before
initiating development or other activities that could have potential impacts on lands or resources that indigenous
peoples use or own, organizations are expected to seek free, prior, and informed consent (FPIC) from indigenous
peoples. This right is recognized in the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples and allows
indigenous peoples to give or withhold consent to a project that may affect them or their territories and to negotiate
project conditions [314]. However, some national governments may not recognize or enforce indigenous land rights or
indigenous peoples’ rights to consent. Documented cases show an absence of good faith consultations and undue
pressure on indigenous peoples to accept projects, with opposition to such projects sometimes leading to violence
or death (see also topic 11.18 Conflict and security). Organizations in the sector and indigenous peoples regularly
have disputes and conflicts over land ownership and rights.
An influx of workers from other areas can result in discrimination toward indigenous peoples regarding access to
jobs and opportunities. It can further undermine their social cohesion, well-being, and safety. Impacts that may affect
indigenous women more severely than men include risks of prostitution, forced labor, violence, and increased
exposure to communicable diseases (see also topic 11.15 Local communities).
The contribution of the oil and gas sector to climate change can also exacerbate negative impacts on indigenous
peoples, given their unique relationship with and, at times, dependence on the natural environment.
49 GRI 11: Oil and Gas Sector 2021
Reporting on rights of indigenous peoples
If the organization has determined rights of indigenous peoples to be a material topic, this sub-section lists the
disclosures identified as relevant for reporting on the topic by the oil and gas sector.
STANDARD DISCLOSURE SECTOR
STANDARD
REF. NO.
Management of the topic
GRI 3: Material Disclosure 3-3 Management of material topics 11.17.1
Topics 2021
Additional sector recommendations
• Describe the community development programs that are intended to enhance
positive impacts for indigenous peoples, including the approach to providing
employment, procurement, and training opportunities.
• Describe the approach of engaging with indigenous peoples, including:
- how the organization seeks to ensure engagement is meaningful;
- how the organization seeks to ensure indigenous women can participate
safely and equitably.
Topic Standard disclosures
GRI 411: Rights Disclosure 411-1 Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples 11.17.2
of Indigenous
Additional sector recommendations
Peoples 2016
• Describe the identified incidents of violations involving the rights of indigenous
peoples.
Additional sector disclosures
List the locations of operations where indigenous peoples are present or affected by activities of the 11.17.3
organization.
Report if the organization has been involved in a process of seeking free, prior and informed consent 11.17.4
(FPIC) from indigenous peoples for any of the organization’s activities, including, in each case:
• whether the process has been mutually accepted by the organization and the affected indigenous
peoples;
• whether an agreement has been reached, and if so, if the agreement is publicly available.
References and resources
GRI 411: Rights of Indigenous Peoples 2016 lists authoritative intergovernmental instruments and additional
references relevant to reporting on this topic.
The additional authoritative instruments and references used in developing this topic, as well as resources that may
be helpful for reporting on rights of indigenous peoples by the oil and gas sector are listed in the Bibliography.
50 GRI 11: Oil and Gas Sector 2021
Topic 11.18 Conflict and security
An organization’s activities may trigger conflict or, in cases of existing conflict, intensify it. The use of security
personnel to manage conflict can play an essential role in allowing an organization to operate safely and
productively but also has the potential to impact on people’s human rights. This topic covers the organization's
security practices and its approach to operating in areas of conflict.
Many organizations in the oil and gas sector operate in locations and situations of conflict including, for example,
countries characterized by political and social instability.
Conflict can also be caused by the presence of oil and gas activities. It can be triggered by negative environmental
impacts; inadequate engagement of stakeholders and indigenous peoples in decision-making processes; uneven
distribution of economic benefits or provision of benefits deemed disproportionate to impacts created; and disputes
over the use of land and natural resources (see also topic 11.16 Land and resource rights). The perceived
mismanagement of funds at the expense of local interests can also trigger conflict (see also topic 11.20 Anti-
corruption). Such conflict can heighten the need to use security personnel, thereby increasing the potential for
violations of human rights.
Security personnel engaged by organizations in the oil and gas sector or public security directed by the host
government may be present to protect organizations’ assets or ensure workers’ safety and security. Actions taken by
security personnel against local community members, including during protest activities against development of oil
and gas resources or to protect land and resources, can violate human rights, such as the rights to freedom of
association and freedom of speech, as well as lead to violence, injuries, or deaths.
When oil and gas activities are endorsed by the government but remain disagreeable to local communities, the
presence of public security forces can increase tensions between communities, government, and organizations in the
sector. This can in turn exacerbate local power imbalances and, potentially, use of force.
In cases where public or other third-party security forces, such as paramilitary groups, are active, organizations in the
oil and gas sector still have a responsibility to take steps to ensure security practices are consistent with the
protection of human rights. This involves assessing security-related risks, identifying situations in which impacts on
human rights are likely to occur, and working with security providers to ensure human rights are respected.
Organizations in the oil and gas sector may also contribute more broadly to the safety and security of local
communities, for example, by facilitating communication between communities and public security forces or
supporting efforts to address other sources of conflict.
51 GRI 11: Oil and Gas Sector 2021
Reporting on conflict and security
If the organization has determined conflict and security to be a material topic, this sub-section lists the disclosures
identified as relevant for reporting on the topic by the oil and gas sector.
STANDARD DISCLOSURE SECTOR
STANDARD
REF. NO.
Management of the topic
GRI 3: Material Disclosure 3-3 Management of material topics 11.18.1
Topics 2021
Additional sector recommendations
• List the locations of operations in areas of conflict.
• Describe the approach to ensuring respect for human rights by public and
private security providers.
Topic Standard disclosures
GRI 410: Security Disclosure 410-1 Security personnel trained in human rights policies or 11.18.2
Practices 2016 procedures
References and resources
GRI 410: Security Practices 2016 lists references relevant to reporting on this topic.
The additional authoritative instruments and references used in developing this topic, as well as resources that may
be helpful for reporting on conflict and security by the oil and gas sector are listed in the Bibliography.
52 GRI 11: Oil and Gas Sector 2021
Topic 11.19 Anti-competitive behavior
Anti-competitive behavior refers to actions by an organization that can result in collusion with potential
competitors, abuse of dominant market position or exclusion of potential competitors, thereby limiting the effects
of market competition. This can include fixing prices or coordinating bids, creating market or output restrictions,
imposing geographic quotas, and allocating customers, suppliers, geographic areas, or product lines. This topic
covers impacts as a result of anti-competitive behavior.
The oil and gas sector faces high barriers to entry due to the sizable investments needed. Consequently, established
organizations in the sector are often large and can dominate national or local markets. Mergers and acquisitions can
intensify this concentration. Some segments of the sector depend on extensive infrastructure investments, such as
investments in pipelines and liquefied natural gas (LNG) terminals, usually operated by a single organization or a
small number of them.
The global market for oil and gas is large and well-integrated, making it secure against collusion or market
dominance from individual producers. However, specific segments of the oil and gas sector can be subject to anti-
competitive behavior. Instances of cartels, monopolistic practices, and related abuse of such positions have been
documented in some jurisdictions in which oil and gas organizations are active. Agreements between producers and
energy distributors, as well as mergers between organizations in the sector, can diminish competition by affecting
output volume, and can create monopolies over transportation, distribution and supply to consumers. Collusion can
also take place when submitting bids for the rights to extract oil and gas. Organizations may coordinate their bids in
connivance with competitors so as to obtain lower prices, depriving resource owners of fair compensation.
Anti-competitive behavior can result in higher prices for oil, gas and raw materials derived from oil and gas extraction.
Given the key role of oil and gas in the world economy, even a small increase in price can have sizeable negative
impacts.
53 GRI 11: Oil and Gas Sector 2021
Reporting on anti-competitive behavior
If the organization has determined anti-competitive behavior to be a material topic, this sub-section lists the
disclosures identified as relevant for reporting on the topic by the oil and gas sector.
STANDARD DISCLOSURE SECTOR
STANDARD
REF. NO.
Management of the topic
GRI 3: Material Disclosure 3-3 Management of material topics 11.19.1
Topics 2021
Topic Standard disclosures
GRI 206: Anti- Disclosure 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and 11.19.2
competitive monopoly practices
Behavior 2016
References and resources
GRI 206: Anti-competitive Behavior 2016 lists authoritative intergovernmental instruments and additional references
relevant to reporting on this topic.
The additional authoritative instruments and references used in developing this topic, as well as resources that may
be helpful for reporting on anti-competitive behavior by the oil and gas sector are listed in the Bibliography.
54 GRI 11: Oil and Gas Sector 2021
Topic 11.20 Anti-corruption
Anti-corruption refers to how an organization manages the potential of being involved with corruption. Corruption
is practices such as bribery, facilitation payments, fraud, extortion, collusion, money laundering, or the offer or
receipt of an inducement to do something dishonest or illegal. This topic covers impacts related to corruption and
an organization’s approach related to contract and ownership transparency.
Corruption in the oil and gas sector can occur throughout the value chain and has been linked to various negative
impacts, such as misallocation of resources revenues, damage to the environment, abuse of democracy and human
rights, and political instability. Corruption can lead to diversion of public revenues to private beneficiaries, at the
expense of, for example, investments in infrastructure or services. This can be particularly critical in countries with
high poverty levels, leading to increased inequalities and conflicts over oil and gas resources (see topic 11.18 Conflict
and security).
The oil and gas sector faces higher risks of corruption in comparison with other sectors. Characteristics of the sector
that contribute to the potential for corruption include frequent interaction between oil and gas organizations and
politically exposed persons13 , such as government officials for licenses and other regulatory approvals. Other relevant
sector characteristics include the complex financial transactions and the international reach of the sector.
State-owned enterprises (SOEs) face specific challenges in relation to corruption because they may have less
effective internal controls and be subject to partial independent oversight. In addition to driving profit, SOEs may also
pursue broader objectives such as community development. However, without adequate oversight, measures for
community development may be abused for corrupt purposes. Organizations in the oil and gas sector partnering with
SOEs in joint ventures may face additional risks related to corruption as a result of this business relationship.
Cases of corruption during bidding processes for exploration and production licenses have been documented in the
oil and gas sector. Organizations in the sector have used corrupt practices to obtain confidential information, influence
decision-making, and avoid environmental or other requirements. Such cases may result in licenses being awarded
to less qualified organizations, jeopardize public investments, or negatively impact the environment and local
communities. Opaque licensing procedures may also obstruct public scrutiny of oil and gas investments and
transactions that could result in reduced public revenue.
In other cases, corrupt practices have aimed to block or shape policies and regulations or to influence their
enforcement. This might include regulations concerning land and resource rights, taxes and other government levies,
or environmental protection.
Across the value chain, a lack of transparency in procurement procedures in the oil and gas sector can also create a
risk of corruption or fraud. Examples of this can include paying bribes to get regulations or quality requirements
waived, receiving kickbacks for securing contracts at inflated prices, or profiting from inflated prices charged by an
entity established as a front organization.
To combat corruption and prevent the negative impacts that stem from it, organizations in the oil and gas sector are
expected by the marketplace, international norms, and stakeholders to demonstrate their adherence to integrity,
governance, and responsible business practices.
13 Politically exposed person is defined by the Financial Action Taskforce as “an individual who is or has been entrusted with a prominent public
function” [367].
55 GRI 11: Oil and Gas Sector 2021
Box 7. Transparency about contracts and ownership structures
Publication of government contracts is a growing practice. It is endorsed by organizations such as the United
Nations, the International Monetary Fund (IMF), the International Finance Corporation (IFC), the International
Bar Association, and the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD).
Contracts governing the extraction of oil and gas resources are commonly devised by organizations in the
sector and governments on behalf of citizens or local communities without public oversight. Fair terms for
sharing risks and rewarding benefits, including those related to a just transition, are particularly relevant
because of the long-term time horizons and widespread impacts of projects. Contract transparency helps local
communities hold governments and organizations accountable for their negotiated terms and obligations. It
also reduces information asymmetries between governments and oil and gas organizations and helps level
the playing field in negotiations.
Lack of transparency about ownership structures can make it difficult to determine who benefits from financial
transactions in the oil and gas sector. Beneficial ownership transparency has been identified as a significant
opportunity to deter conflicts of interest, corruption, and tax avoidance and evasion.
See references [365] and [369] in the Bibliography.
56 GRI 11: Oil and Gas Sector 2021
Reporting on anti-corruption
If the organization has determined anti-corruption to be a material topic, this sub-section lists the disclosures
identified as relevant for reporting on the topic by the oil and gas sector.
STANDARD DISCLOSURE SECTOR
STANDARD
REF. NO.
Management of the topic
GRI 3: Material Disclosure 3-3 Management of material topics 11.20.1
Topics 2021
Additional sector recommendations
• Describe how potential impacts of corruption or risks of corruption are
managed in the organization’s supply chain.
• Describe the whistleblowing and other mechanisms in place for individuals to
raise concerns about corruption.
Topic Standard disclosures
GRI 205: Anti- Disclosure 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 11.20.2
corruption 2016
Disclosure 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and 11.20.3
procedures
Disclosure 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 11.20.4
Additional sector disclosures
Describe the approach to contract transparency, including: 11.20.5
• whether contracts and licenses are made publicly and, if so, where they are published;
• if contracts or licenses are not publicly available, the reason for this and actions taken to make
them public in the future.14
List the organization’s beneficial owners and explain how the organization identifies the beneficial 11.20.6
owners of business partners, including joint ventures and suppliers.15
References and resources
GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016 lists authoritative intergovernmental instruments and additional references relevant to
reporting on this topic.
The additional authoritative instruments and references used in developing this topic, as well as resources that may
be helpful for reporting on anti-corruption by the oil and gas sector are listed in the Bibliography.
14 This additional sector disclosure is based on Requirement 2.4. Contracts in the EITI Standard 2019. Definitions for contracts and licenses can be
found in the EITI Standard 2019 [366].
15 This additional sector disclosure is based on Requirement 2.5. Beneficial ownership c., d., and f. in the EITI Standard 2019 [366].
57 GRI 11: Oil and Gas Sector 2021
Topic 11.21 Payments to governments
Lack of transparency about payments to governments can contribute to inefficient management of public funds,
illicit financial flows, and corruption. This topic covers impacts from an organization's practices related to
payments to governments and the organization’s approach to transparency of such payments.
Organizations in the oil and gas sector deal with a large number of complex financial transactions and make a variety
of payments to governments. These include commodity trading revenues, exploration and production licensing fees,
taxes and royalties, signature, discovery and production bonuses.
Transparency of payments to governments can help distinguish the economic importance of the oil and gas sector to
countries, enable public debate, and inform government decision-making. It can also provide insights into the terms
of contracts, increase government accountability, and strengthen revenue collection and management. Insufficient
transparency of these payments, on the other hand, can impede detection of misallocation of revenues and
corruption.
Taxes, royalties, and other payments from organizations in the oil and gas sector are an important source of
investment and revenue for local communities, countries, and regions (see topic 11.14 Economic impacts). However,
aggressive tax practices or tax non-compliance can lead to diminished tax revenues in countries where the
organizations operate. This can be particularly damaging for developing countries that may lack or have high needs
for public revenue. The sector also receives substantial subsidies from governments in many countries, which are of
great interest to stakeholders, such as investors or civil society.
When disclosing information on payments to governments, organizations in the oil and gas sector often report
aggregate payments at an organizational level. However, this can provide limited insight into payments made in each
country or related to a project. Reporting country-level and project-level payments enables comparison of the
payments made to those stipulated in fiscal, legal, and contractual terms, as well as to assess the financial
contribution of oil and gas activities to host countries and communities. It can also enable governments to address
tax avoidance and evasion, correct information asymmetry and level the playing field for governments when
negotiating contracts.
Box 8. State-owned enterprises
A state-owned enterprise (SOE) is, according to the Extractives Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI), ‘a
wholly or majority government-owned company that is engaged in extractive activities on behalf of the
government’ (see reference [386] in the Bibliography). SOEs often have special status, which can involve
financial advantages and preferential treatment.
SOEs often sell shares of the produced resource to buyers, including commodity trading companies. This first
trade16 is an important revenue stream for countries and can involve a high volume of financial transactions.
However, data on these transactions is often scarce or inaccessible. The first trade can be subject to trade
mispricing in the form of under-invoicing of exports or over-invoicing of imports to obtain financial gain. Other
risks may result from selecting buyers and allocation of sales contracts (which can involve bribery and conflicts
of interest) and moving income to a state treasury, potentially causing misallocation of revenues or generating
public mistrust of revenue management (see also topic 11.20 Anti-corruption).
Transparency in the operations and objectives of SOEs is crucial for monitoring their performance and
maximizing their economic and social contributions.
16 First trade is defined by the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative as “the sale of the state’s share of production by government and state-
owned enterprises” [384].
58 GRI 11: Oil and Gas Sector 2021
Reporting on payments to governments
If the organization has determined payments to governments to be a material topic, this sub-section lists the
disclosures identified as relevant for reporting on the topic by the oil and gas sector.
STANDARD DISCLOSURE SECTOR
STANDARD
REF. NO.
Management of the topic
GRI 3: Material Disclosure 3-3 Management of material topics 11.21.1
Topics 2021
Topic Standard disclosures
GRI 201: Disclosure 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 11.21.2
Economic
Disclosure 201-4 Financial assistance received from government 11.21.3
Performance
2016
Additional sector recommendations
For state-owned organizations (SOE):
• Report the financial relationship between the government and the SOE.17
GRI 207: Tax Disclosure 207-1 Approach to tax 11.21.4
2019
Disclosure 207-2 Tax governance, control, and risk management 11.21.5
Disclosure 207-3 Stakeholder engagement and management of concerns related 11.21.6
to tax
Disclosure 207-4 Country-by-country reporting 11.21.7
Additional sector recommendations
• Report a breakdown of the payments to governments levied at the project-level,
by project and the following revenue streams, if applicable:
- The host government’s production entitlement;
- National state-owned company production;
- Royalties;
- Dividends;
- Bonuses (e.g., signature, discovery, and production bonuses);
- License fees, rental fees, entry fees; and other considerations for licenses
or concessions;
- Any other significant payments and material benefits to government.18
• Report the value of any thresholds19 that have been applied and any other
contextual information necessary to understand how the project-level
payments to governments reported have been compiled.
Additional sector disclosures
For oil and gas purchased from the state, or from third parties appointed by the state to sell on their 11.21.8
behalf, report:
• volumes and types of oil and gas purchased;
• full names of the buying entity and the recipient of the payment;
• payments made for the purchase.20
17 This additional sector recommendation is based on Requirement 2.6 State participation in the EITI Standard 2019 [387].
18 This additional sector recommendation is based on Requirement 4.1 Comprehensive disclosure of taxes and revenues and Requirement 4.7. Level
of disaggregation in the EITI Standard 2019. A definition for project can be found in the EITI Standard 2019 [387].
19 The EITI Standard 2019 specifies that in countries implementing the EITI, the multi-stakeholder group for the country agree which payments and
revenues are material, including appropriate thresholds [387]. The organization can use the relevant threshold set by the EITI multi-stakeholder group.
If there is no relevant threshold set, the organization can use a threshold equivalent to that established for the European Union, which specifies that
‘Payments, whether a single payment or a series of related payments, below EUR 100,000 within the reporting period can be excluded’ [380].
20 This additional sector disclosure is based on Requirement 4.2 Sale of the state’s share of production or other revenues collected in kind in the EITI
Standard 2019 [387] and EITI Reporting Guidelines for companies buying oil, gas and minerals from governments [385].
59 GRI 11: Oil and Gas Sector 2021
References and resources
GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016 and GRI 207: Tax 2019 list authoritative intergovernmental instruments and
additional references relevant to reporting on this topic.
The additional authoritative instruments and references used in developing this topic, as well as resources that may
be helpful for reporting on payments to governments by the oil and gas sector are listed in the Bibliography.
60 GRI 11: Oil and Gas Sector 2021
Topic 11.22 Public policy
An organization can participate in public policy development, directly or through an intermediary organization, by
means of lobbying or making financial or in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, or causes. While an
organization can encourage the development of public policy that benefits society, participation can also be
associated with corruption, bribery, undue influence or an imbalanced representation of the organization’s
interests. This topic covers an organization’s approach to public policy advocacy, and the impacts that can result
from the influence an organization exerts.
The oil and gas sector can exert significant influence on government policies and is among the sectors with the
largest lobbying expenditure. Documented cases have shown that lobbying by the oil and gas sector can obstruct
progress toward the Sustainable Development Goals, or lead to policy and regulation inconsistent with the transition
to a low-carbon economy. In regions where oil and gas generate significant revenue for governments, organizations
in the sector may get better access to, and representation in meetings with, government representatives, which may
lead to increased influence over public policy decisions. Organizations in the sector have made donations to political
parties whose policies favor corporate agendas or gain special access to politicians.
Advocacy and lobbying by the oil and gas sector have contributed to hindering environmental policies; blocking or
amending legislation on environmental and social assessments of projects or fair participation of all stakeholders;
overturning restrictions on resource development; acquiring permits for pipelines; and lowering labor standards,
corporate taxes, and resource royalties. These activities have also been used to gain or retain government subsidies,
which can result in commodity prices that do not reflect the full environmental costs of oil and gas products.
The oil and gas sector has actively advocated against ambitious climate policies as well as for ensuring continued
subsidies to the sector, through individual organizations in the sector and industry bodies. These activities have often
been targeted against enforcing meaningful carbon pricing, carbon budgets, or other measures to reduce GHG
emissions that could leave oil and gas assets and resources stranded. Sometimes, efforts have contradicted publicly
stated corporate strategies and positions that support policies addressing climate change. Excessive subsidies for
the sector can impede the transition to a low-carbon economy, and consequently hinder sustainable development, in
numerous ways, including by reducing or inefficiently allocating available national resources, increasing dependence
on fossil fuels, and discouraging investment in renewable energy and energy efficiency (see topic 11.2 Climate
adaptation, resilience, and transition).
61 GRI 11: Oil and Gas Sector 2021
Reporting on public policy
If the organization has determined public policy to be a material topic, this sub-section lists the disclosures identified
as relevant for reporting on the topic by the oil and gas sector.
STANDARD DISCLOSURE SECTOR
STANDARD
REF. NO.
Management of the topic
GRI 3: Material Disclosure 3-3 Management of material topics 11.22.1
Topics 2021
Additional sector recommendations
• Describe the organization’s stance on significant issues that are the focus of
its participation in public policy development and lobbying; and any differences
between these positions and its stated policies, goals, or other public
positions.
• Report whether the organization is a member of, or contributes to, any
representative associations or committees that participate in public policy
development and lobbying, including:
- the nature of this contribution;
- any differences between the organization’s stated policies, goals, or other
public positions on significant issues related to climate change, and the
positions of the representative associations or committees.21
Topic Standard disclosures
GRI 415: Public Disclosure 415-1 Political contributions 11.22.2
Policy 2016
References and resources
GRI 415: Public Policy 2016 lists authoritative intergovernmental instruments relevant to reporting on this topic.
The additional authoritative instruments and references used in developing this topic, as well as resources that may
be helpful for reporting on public policy by the oil and gas sector are listed in the Bibliography.
21 These additional sector recommendations are based on reporting recommendations 1.2.1 and 1.2.2 in GRI 415: Public Policy 2016.
62 GRI 11: Oil and Gas Sector 2021
Glossary
This glossary provides definitions for terms used in this Standard. The organization is required to apply these
definitions when using the GRI Standards.
The definitions included in this glossary may contain terms that are further defined in the complete GRI Standards
Glossary. All defined terms are underlined. If a term is not defined in this glossary or in the complete GRI Standards
Glossary, definitions that are commonly used and understood apply.
anti-competitive behavior
A
action of the organization or employees that can result in collusion with potential competitors,
with the purpose of limiting the effects of market competition
Examples: allocating customers, suppliers, geographic areas, and product lines; coordinating
bids; creating market or output restrictions; fixing prices; imposing geographic
quotas
area of high biodiversity value
area not subject to legal protection, but recognized for important biodiversity features by a
number of governmental and non-governmental organizations
Note 1: Areas of high biodiversity value include habitats that are a priority for conservation,
which are often defined in National Biodiversity Strategies and Action Plans
prepared under the United Nations (UN) Convention, ‘Convention on Biological
Diversity’, 1992.
Note 2: Several international conservation organizations have identified particular areas of
high biodiversity value.
area protected
area that is protected from any harm during operational activities, and where the environment
remains in its original state with a healthy and functioning ecosystem
area restored
area that was used during or affected by operational activities, and where remediation
measures have either restored the environment to its original state, or to a state where it has a
healthy and functioning ecosystem
baseline
B
starting point used for comparisons
Note: In the context of energy reporting, the baseline is the projected energy consumption
in the absence of any reduction activity.
basic salary
fixed, minimum amount paid to an employee for performing his or her duties
Note: Basic salary excludes any additional remuneration, such as payments for overtime
working or bonuses.
benefit
direct benefit provided in the form of financial contributions, care paid for by the organization, or
the reimbursement of expenses borne by the employee
Note: Redundancy payments over and above legal minimums, lay-off pay, extra
employment injury benefit, survivors’ benefits, and extra paid holiday entitlements
can also be included as a benefit.
business partner
entity with which the organization has some form of direct and formal engagement for the
purpose of meeting its business objectives
Source: Shift and Mazars LLP, UN Guiding Principles Reporting Framework, 2015; modified
63 GRI 11: Oil and Gas Sector 2021
Examples: affiliates, business-to-business customers, clients, first-tier suppliers, franchisees,
joint venture partners, investee companies in which the organization has a
shareholding position
Note: Business partners do not include subsidiaries and affiliates that the organization
controls.
business relationships
relationships that the organization has with business partners, with entities in its value chain
including those beyond the first tier, and with any other entities directly linked to its operations,
products, or services
Source: United Nations (UN), Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights:
Implementing the United Nations “Protect, Respect and Remedy” Framework, 2011;
modified
Note: Examples of other entities directly linked to the organization’s operations, products,
or services are a non-governmental organization with which the organization
delivers support to a local community or state security forces that protect the
organization’s facilities.
carbon dioxide (CO2) equivalent *
C
measure used to compare the emissions from various types of greenhouse gas (GHG)
based on their global warming potential (GWP)
Note: The CO equivalent for a gas is determined by multiplying the metric tons of the gas
2
by the associated GWP.
* Please note this term will be updated following the effective date of GRI 102: Climate Change
2025 and GRI 103: Energy 2025, as of 1 January 2027. Please see GRI 102/103 for the updated
term.
catchment
area of land from which all surface runoff and subsurface water flows through a sequence of
streams, rivers, aquifers, and lakes into the sea or another outlet at a single river mouth,
estuary, or delta
Source: Alliance for Water Stewardship (AWS), AWS International Water Stewardship
Standard, Version 1.0, 2014; modified
Note: Catchments include associated groundwater areas and might include portions of
waterbodies (such as lakes or rivers). In different parts of the world, catchments
are also referred to as ‘watersheds’ or ‘basins’ (or sub-basins).
child
person under the age of 15 years, or under the age of completion of compulsory schooling,
whichever is higher
Note 1: Exceptions can occur in certain countries where economies and educational
facilities are insufficiently developed, and a minimum age of 14 years applies.
These countries of exception are specified by the International Labour Organization
(ILO) in response to a special application by the country concerned and in
consultation with representative organizations of employers and workers.
Note 2: The ILO Minimum Age Convention, 1973, (No. 138), refers to both child labor and
young workers.
circularity measures
measures taken to retain the value of products, materials, and resources and redirect them
back to use for as long as possible with the lowest carbon and resource footprint possible, such
that fewer raw materials and resources are extracted and waste generation is prevented
collective bargaining
all negotiations that take place between one or more employers or employers' organizations, on
the one hand, and one or more workers' organizations (e.g., trade unions), on the other, for
64 GRI 11: Oil and Gas Sector 2021
determining working conditions and terms of employment or for regulating relations between
employers and workers
Source: International Labour Organization (ILO), Collective Bargaining Convention, 1981
(No. 154); modified
community development program
plan that details actions to minimize, mitigate, or compensate for adverse social and/or
economic impacts, and/or to identify opportunities or actions to enhance positive impacts of a
project on the community
conflict of interest
situation where an individual is confronted with choosing between the requirements of their
function in the organization and their other personal or professional interests or responsibilities
corruption
‘abuse of entrusted power for private gain’, which can be instigated by individuals or
organizations
Source: Transparency International, Business Principles for Countering Bribery, 2011
Note: Corruption includes practices such as bribery, facilitation payments, fraud, extortion,
collusion, and money laundering. It also includes an offer or receipt of any gift, loan,
fee, reward, or other advantage to or from any person as an inducement to do
something that is dishonest, illegal, or a breach of trust in the conduct of the
enterprise’s business. This can include cash or in-kind benefits, such as free
goods, gifts, and holidays, or special personal services provided for the purpose of
an improper advantage, or that can result in moral pressure to receive such an
advantage.
direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions *
D
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from sources that are owned or controlled by the
organization
Examples: CO emissions from fuel consumption
2
Note: A GHG source is any physical unit or process that releases GHG into the
atmosphere.
* Please note this term will be updated following the effective date of GRI 102: Climate Change
2025 and GRI 103: Energy 2025, as of 1 January 2027. Please see GRI 102/103 for the updated
term.
discrimination
act and result of treating persons unequally by imposing unequal burdens or denying benefits
instead of treating each person fairly on the basis of individual merit
Note: Discrimination can also include harassment, defined as a course of comments or
actions that are unwelcome, or should reasonably be known to be unwelcome, to
the person towards whom they are addressed.
disposal
any operation which is not recovery, even where the operation has as a secondary consequence
the recovery of energy
Source: European Union (EU), Waste Framework Directive, 2008 (Directive 2008/98/EC)
Note: Disposal is the end-of-life management of discarded products, materials, and
resources in a sink or through a chemical or thermal transformation that makes
these products, materials, and resources unavailable for further use.
due diligence
process to identify, prevent, mitigate, and account for how the organization addresses its actual
and potential negative impacts
65 GRI 11: Oil and Gas Sector 2021
Source: Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), OECD
Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, 2011; modified
United Nations (UN), Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights:
Implementing the United Nations “Protect, Respect and Remedy” Framework, 2011;
modified
Note: See section 2.3 in GRI 1: Foundation 2021 for more information on ‘due diligence’.
effluent
E
treated or untreated wastewater that is discharged
Source: Alliance for Water Stewardship (AWS), AWS International Water Stewardship
Standard, Version 1.0, 2014
employee
individual who is in an employment relationship with the organization according to national law
or practice
employee turnover
employees who leave the organization voluntarily or due to dismissal, retirement, or death in
service
energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions *
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions that result from the generation of purchased or acquired
electricity, heating, cooling, and steam consumed by the organization
* Please note this term will be updated following the effective date of GRI 102: Climate Change
2025 and GRI 103: Energy 2025, as of 1 January 2027. Please see GRI 102/103 for the updated
term.
entry level wage
full-time wage in the lowest employment category
Note: Intern or apprentice wages are not considered entry level wages.
exposure
quantity of time spent at or the nature of contact with certain environments that possess various
degrees and kinds of hazard, or proximity to a condition that might cause injury or ill health (e.g.,
chemicals, radiation, high pressure, noise, fire, explosives)
financial assistance
F
direct or indirect financial benefits that do not represent a transaction of goods and services, but
which are an incentive or compensation for actions taken, the cost of an asset, or expenses
incurred
Note: The provider of financial assistance does not expect a direct financial return from
the assistance offered.
forced or compulsory labor
all work and service that is exacted from any person under the menace of any penalty and for
which the said person has not offered herself or himself voluntarily
Source: International Labour Organization (ILO), Forced Labour Convention, 1930 (No. 29);
modified
Note 1: The most extreme examples of forced or compulsory labor are slave labor and
bonded labor, but debts can also be used as a means of maintaining workers in a
state of forced labor.
Note 2: Indicators of forced labor include withholding identity papers, requiring compulsory
deposits, and compelling workers, under threat of firing, to work extra hours to
which they have not previously agreed.
freedom of association
right of employers and workers to form, to join and to run their own organizations without prior
66 GRI 11: Oil and Gas Sector 2021
authorization or interference by the state or any other entity
freshwater
water with concentration of total dissolved solids equal to or below 1,000 mg/L
Source: Environmental management — Water footprint — Principles, requirements and
guidelines. Geneva: ISO, 2014; modified
United States Geological Survey (USGS), Water Science Glossary of Terms,
water.usgs.gov/edu/dictionary.html, accessed on 1 June 2018; modified
World Health Organization (WHO), Guidelines for Drinking-water Quality, 2017;
modified
global warming potential (GWP) *
G
value describing the radiative forcing impact of one unit of a given greenhouse gas
(GHG) relative to one unit of CO over a given period of time
2
Note: GWP values convert GHG emissions data for non-CO gases into units of CO2
2
equivalent.
* Please note this term will be updated following the effective date of GRI 102: Climate Change
2025 and GRI 103: Energy 2025, as of 1 January 2027. Please see GRI 102/103 for the updated
term.
governance body
formalized group of individuals responsible for the strategic guidance of the organization, the
effective monitoring of management, and the accountability of management to the broader
organization and its stakeholders
greenhouse gas (GHG) *
gas that contributes to the greenhouse effect by absorbing infrared radiation
* Please note this term will be updated following the effective date of GRI 102: Climate Change
2025 and GRI 103: Energy 2025, as of 1 January 2027. Please see GRI 102/103 for the updated
term.
grievance
perceived injustice evoking an individual’s or a group’s sense of entitlement, which may be
based on law, contract, explicit or implicit promises, customary practice, or general notions of
fairness of aggrieved communities
Source: United Nations (UN), Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights:
Implementing the United Nations “Protect, Respect and Remedy” Framework, 2011
grievance mechanism
routinized process through which grievances can be raised and remedy can be sought
Source: United Nations (UN), Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights:
Implementing the United Nations “Protect, Respect and Remedy” Framework, 2011;
modified
Note: See Guidance to Disclosure 2-25 in GRI 2: General Disclosures 2021 for more
information on ‘grievance mechanism’.
groundwater
water that is being held in, and that can be recovered from, an underground formation
Source: International Organization for Standardization. ISO 14046:2014. Environmental
management — Water footprint — Principles, requirements and guidelines. Geneva:
ISO, 2014; modified
hazardous waste
H
waste that possesses any of the characteristics contained in Annex III of the Basel Convention,
or that is considered to be hazardous by national legislation
67 GRI 11: Oil and Gas Sector 2021
Source: United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), Basel Convention on the Control
of Transboundary Movements of Hazardous Wastes and Their Disposal, 1989
high-consequence work-related injury
work-related injury that results in a fatality or in an injury from which the worker cannot, does not,
or is not expected to recover fully to pre-injury health status within six months
highest governance body
governance body with the highest authority in the organization
Note: In some jurisdictions, governance systems consist of two tiers, where supervision
and management are separated or where local law provides for a supervisory
board drawn from non-executives to oversee an executive management board. In
such cases, both tiers are included under the definition of highest governance
body.
human rights
rights inherent to all human beings, which include, at a minimum, the rights set out in the United
Nations (UN) International Bill of Human Rights and the principles concerning fundamental
rights set out in the International Labour Organization (ILO) Declaration on Fundamental
Principles and Rights at Work
Source: United Nations (UN), Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights:
Implementing the United Nations “Protect, Respect and Remedy” Framework, 2011;
modified
Note: See Guidance to 2-23-b-i in GRI 2: General Disclosures 2021 for more information
on ‘human rights’.
impact
I
effect the organization has or could have on the economy, environment, and people, including on
their human rights, which in turn can indicate its contribution (negative or positive) to sustainable
development
Note 1: Impacts can be actual or potential, negative or positive, short-term or long-term,
intended or unintended, and reversible or irreversible.
Note 2: See section 2.1 in GRI 1: Foundation 2021 for more information on ‘impact’.
Indigenous Peoples
Indigenous Peoples are generally identified as:
• tribal peoples in independent countries whose social, cultural and economic conditions
distinguish them from other sections of the national community, and whose status is
regulated wholly or partially by their own customs or traditions or by special laws or
regulations;
• peoples in independent countries who are regarded as indigenous on account of their
descent from the populations which inhabited the country, or a geographical region to which
the country belongs, at the time of conquest or colonization or the establishment of present
state boundaries and who, irrespective of their legal status, retain some or all of their own
social, economic, cultural and political institutions.
Source: International Labour Organization (ILO), Indigenous and Tribal Peoples Convention,
1989 (No. 169)
infrastructure
facilities built primarily to provide a public service or good rather than a commercial purpose,
and from which the organization does not seek to gain direct economic benefit
Examples: hospitals, roads, schools, water supply facilities
local community
L
individuals or groups of individuals living or working in areas that are affected or that could be
affected by the organization’s activities
68 GRI 11: Oil and Gas Sector 2021
Note: The local community can range from those living adjacent to the organization’s
operations to those living at a distance.
local supplier
organization or person that provides a product or service to the reporting organization, and that is
based in the same geographic market as the reporting organization (that is, no transnational
payments are made to a local supplier)
Note: The geographic definition of ‘local’ can include the community surrounding
operations, a region within a country or a country.
material topics
M
topics that represent the organization’s most significant impacts on the economy, environment,
and people, including impacts on their human rights
Note: See section 2.2 in GRI 1: Foundation 2021 and section 1 in GRI 3: Material Topics
2021 for more information on ‘material topics’.
mitigation
action(s) taken to reduce the extent of a negative impact
Source: United Nations (UN), The Corporate Responsibility to Respect Human Rights: An
Interpretive Guide, 2012; modified
Note: The mitigation of an actual negative impact refers to actions taken to reduce the
severity of the negative impact that has occurred, with any residual impact needing
remediation. The mitigation of a potential negative impact refers to actions taken to
reduce the likelihood of the negative impact occurring.
occupational health and safety management system
O
set of interrelated or interacting elements to establish an occupational health and safety policy
and objectives, and to achieve those objectives
Source: International Labour Organization (ILO), Guidelines on Occupational Safety and
Health Management Systems, ILO-OSH 2001, 2001
occupational health services
services entrusted with essentially preventive functions, and responsible for advising the
employer, the workers, and their representatives in the undertaking, on the requirements for
establishing and maintaining a safe and healthy work environment, which will facilitate optimal
physical and mental health in relation to work and the adaptation of work to the capabilities of
workers in the light of their state of physical and mental health
Source: International Labour Organization (ILO), Occupational Health Services Convention,
1985 (No. 161)
Examples: advice on ergonomics, and on individual and collective protective equipment; advice
on occupational health, safety, and hygiene; organization of first aid and emergency
treatment; promotion of the adaptation of work to the worker; surveillance of factors
in the work environment, including any sanitary installations, canteens, and housing
provided to workers, or in work practices, which might affect workers’ health;
surveillance of workers' health in relation to work
other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions *
indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions not included in energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG
emissions that occur outside of the organization, including both upstream and downstream
emissions
* Please note this term will be updated following the effective date of GRI 102: Climate Change
2025 and GRI 103: Energy 2025, as of 1 January 2027. Please see GRI 102/103 for the updated
term.
parental leave
P
leave granted to men and women employees on the grounds of the birth of a child
69 GRI 11: Oil and Gas Sector 2021
political contribution
financial or in-kind support given directly or indirectly to political parties, their elected
representatives, or persons seeking political office
Note 1: Financial contributions can include donations, loans, sponsorships, retainers, or
the purchase of tickets for fundraising events.
Note 2: In-kind contributions can include advertising, use of facilities, design and printing,
donation of equipment, or the provision of board membership, employment or
consultancy work for elected politicians or candidates for office.
preparation for reuse
checking, cleaning, or repairing operations, by which products or components of products that
have become waste are prepared to be put to use for the same purpose for which they were
conceived
Source: European Union (EU), Waste Framework Directive, 2008 (Directive 2008/98/EC);
modified
produced water
water that enters the organization’s boundary as a result of extraction (e.g., crude oil),
processing (e.g., sugar cane crushing), or use of any raw material, and has to consequently be
managed by the organization
Source: CDP, CDP Water Security Reporting Guidance, 2018; modified
protected area
geographic area that is designated, regulated, or managed to achieve specific conservation
objectives
recovery
R
operation wherein products, components of products, or materials that have become waste are
prepared to fulfill a purpose in place of new products, components, or materials that would
otherwise have been used for that purpose
Source: United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), Basel Convention on the Control
of Transboundary Movements of Hazardous Wastes and Their Disposal, 1989;
modified
Examples: preparation for reuse, recycling
Note: In the context of waste reporting, recovery operations do not include energy recovery.
recycling
reprocessing of products or components of products that have become waste, to make new
materials
Sources: United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), Basel Convention on the Control
of Transboundary Movements of Hazardous Wastes and Their Disposal, 1989;
modified
remedy / remediation
means to counteract or make good a negative impact or provision of remedy
Source: United Nations (UN), The Corporate Responsibility to Respect Human Rights: An
Interpretive Guide, 2012; modified
Examples: apologies, financial or non-financial compensation, prevention of harm through
injunctions or guarantees of non-repetition, punitive sanctions (whether criminal or
administrative, such as fines), restitution, restoration, rehabilitation
remuneration
basic salary plus additional amounts paid to a worker
70 GRI 11: Oil and Gas Sector 2021
Note: Examples of additional amounts paid to a worker can include those based on years
of service, bonuses including cash and equity such as stocks and shares, benefit
payments, overtime, time owed, and any additional allowances, such as
transportation, living and childcare allowances.
renewable energy source
energy source that is capable of being replenished in a short time through ecological cycles or
agricultural processes
Examples: biomass, geothermal, hydro, solar, wind
reporting period
specific time period covered by the reported information
Examples: fiscal year, calendar year
scope of GHG emissions *
S
classification of the operational boundaries where greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions occur
Note 1: Scope classifies whether GHG emissions are created by the organization itself, or
are created by other related organizations, for example electricity suppliers or
logistics companies.
Note 2: There are three classifications of Scope: Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3.
Note 3: The classification of Scope derives from the World Resources Institute (WRI) and
World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD), GHG Protocol
Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard, Revised Edition, 2004.
* Please note this term will be updated following the effective date of GRI 102: Climate Change
2025 and GRI 103: Energy 2025, as of 1 January 2027. Please see GRI 102/103 for the updated
term.
seawater
water in a sea or in an ocean
Source: International Organization for Standardization. ISO 14046:2014. Environmental
management — Water footprint — Principles, requirements and guidelines. Geneva:
ISO, 2014; modified
security personnel
individuals employed for the purposes of guarding property of the organization; crowd control;
loss prevention; and escorting persons, goods, and valuables
senior executive
high-ranking member of the management of the organization, such as the Chief Executive
Officer (CEO) or an individual reporting directly to the CEO or the highest governance body
services supported
services that provide a public benefit either through direct payment of operating costs or through
staffing the facility or service with an organization’s own employees
Note: Public benefit can also include public services.
severity (of an impact)
The severity of an actual or potential negative impact is determined by its scale (i.e., how grave
the impact is), scope (i.e., how widespread the impact is), and irremediable character (how hard
it is to counteract or make good the resulting harm).
Source: Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), OECD Due
Diligence Guidance for Responsible Business Conduct, 2018; modified
United Nations (UN), The Corporate Responsibility to Respect Human Rights: An
Interpretive Guide, 2012; modified
Note: See section 1 in GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 for more information on ‘severity’.
71 GRI 11: Oil and Gas Sector 2021
significant air emission
air emission regulated under international conventions and/or national laws or regulations
Note: Significant air emissions include those listed on environmental permits for the
organization’s operations.
significant operational change
alteration to the organization’s pattern of operations that can potentially have significant positive
or negative impacts on workers performing the organization’s activities
Examples: closures, expansions, mergers, new openings, outsourcing of operations,
restructuring, sale of all or part of the organization, takeovers
significant spill
spill that is included in the organization’s financial statements, for example due to resulting
liabilities, or is recorded as a spill by the organization
spill
accidental release of a hazardous substance that can affect human health, land, vegetation,
waterbodies, and groundwater
stakeholder
individual or group that has an interest that is affected or could be affected by the organization’s
activities
Source: Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), OECD Due
Diligence Guidance for Responsible Business Conduct, 2018; modified
Examples: business partners, civil society organizations, consumers, customers, employees
and other workers, governments, local communities, non-governmental
organizations, shareholders and other investors, suppliers, trade unions,
vulnerable groups
Note: See section 2.4 in GRI 1: Foundation 2021 for more information on ‘stakeholder’.
supplier
entity upstream from the organization (i.e., in the organization’s supply chain), which provides a
product or service that is used in the development of the organization’s own products or services
Examples: brokers, consultants, contractors, distributors, franchisees, home workers,
independent contractors, licensees, manufacturers, primary producers, sub-
contractors, wholesalers
Note: A supplier can have a direct business relationship with the organization (often
referred to as a first-tier supplier) or an indirect business relationship.
supply chain
range of activities carried out by entities upstream from the organization, which provide products
or services that are used in the development of the organization’s own products or services
surface water
water that occurs naturally on the Earth’s surface in ice sheets, ice caps, glaciers, icebergs,
bogs, ponds, lakes, rivers, and streams
Source: CDP, CDP Water Security Reporting Guidance, 2018; modified
sustainable development / sustainability
development that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future
generations to meet their own needs
Source: World Commission on Environment and Development, Our Common Future, 1987
Note: The terms ‘sustainability’ and ‘sustainable development’ are used interchangeably
in the GRI Standards.
72 GRI 11: Oil and Gas Sector 2021
third-party water
T
municipal water suppliers and municipal wastewater treatment plants, public or private utilities,
and other organizations involved in the provision, transport, treatment, disposal, or use of water
and effluent
value chain
V
range of activities carried out by the organization, and by entities upstream and downstream
from the organization, to bring the organization’s products or services from their conception to
their end use
Note 1: Entities upstream from the organization (e.g., suppliers) provide products or
services that are used in the development of the organization’s own products or
services. Entities downstream from the organization (e.g., distributors, customers)
receive products or services from the organization.
Note 2: The value chain includes the supply chain.
vulnerable group
group of individuals with a specific condition or characteristic (e.g., economic, physical, political,
social) that could experience negative impacts as a result of the organization’s activities more
severely than the general population
Examples: children and youth; elderly persons; ex-combatants; HIV/AIDS-affected households;
human rights defenders; Indigenous Peoples; internally displaced persons;
migrant workers and their families; national or ethnic, religious and linguistic
minorities; persons who might be discriminated against based on their sexual
orientation, gender identity, gender expression, or sex characteristics (e.g., lesbian,
gay, bisexual, transgender, intersex); persons with disabilities; refugees or
returning refugees; women
Note: Vulnerabilities and impacts can differ by gender.
waste
W
anything that the holder discards, intends to discard, or is required to discard
Source: United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), Basel Convention on the Control
of Transboundary Movements of Hazardous Wastes and Their Disposal, 1989
Note 1: Waste can be defined according to the national legislation at the point of
generation.
Note 2: A holder can be the reporting organization, an entity in the organization’s value
chain upstream or downstream (e.g., supplier or consumer), or a waste
management organization, among others.
water consumption
sum of all water that has been withdrawn and incorporated into products, used in the production
of crops or generated as waste, has evaporated, transpired, or been consumed by humans or
livestock, or is polluted to the point of being unusable by other users, and is therefore not
released back to surface water, groundwater, seawater, or a third party over the course of the
reporting period
Source: CDP, CDP Water Security Reporting Guidance, 2018; modified
Note: Water consumption includes water that has been stored during the reporting period
for use or discharge in a subsequent reporting period.
water discharge
sum of effluents, used water, and unused water released to surface water, groundwater,
seawater, or a third party, for which the organization has no further use, over the course of the
reporting period
Note 1: Water can be released into the receiving waterbody either at a defined discharge
point (point-source discharge) or dispersed over land in an undefined manner
(non-point-source discharge).
73 GRI 11: Oil and Gas Sector 2021
Note 2: Water discharge can be authorized (in accordance with discharge consent) or
unauthorized (if discharge consent is exceeded).
water stress
ability, or lack thereof, to meet the human and ecological demand for water
Source: CEO Water Mandate, Corporate Water Disclosure Guidelines, 2014
Note 1: Water stress can refer to the availability, quality, or accessibility of water.
Note 2: Water stress is based on subjective elements and is assessed differently
depending on societal values, such as the suitability of water for drinking or the
requirements to be afforded to ecosystems.
Note 3: Water stress in an area may be measured at catchment level at a minimum.
water withdrawal
sum of all water drawn from surface water, groundwater, seawater, or a third party for any use
over the course of the reporting period
work-related hazard
source or situation with the potential to cause injury or ill health
Source: International Labour Organization (ILO) Guidelines on Occupational Safety and
Health Management Systems, 2001; modified
International Organization for Standardization. ISO 45001:2018. Occupational health
and safety management systems — Requirements with guidance for use. Geneva:
ISO, 2018; modified
Definitions that are based on or come from the ISO 14046:2014 and ISO 45001:2018 standards
are reproduced with the permission of the International Organization for Standardization, ISO.
Copyright remains with ISO.
Note: Hazards can be:
• physical (e.g., radiation, temperature extremes, constant loud noise, spills on
floors or tripping hazards, unguarded machinery, faulty electrical equipment);
• ergonomic (e.g., improperly adjusted workstations and chairs, awkward
movements, vibration);
• chemical (e.g., exposure to solvents, carbon monoxide, flammable materials, or
pesticides);
• biological (e.g., exposure to blood and bodily fluids, fungi, bacteria, viruses, or
insect bites);
• psychosocial (e.g., verbal abuse, harassment, bullying);
• related to work-organization (e.g., excessive workload demands, shift work, long
hours, night work, workplace violence).
work-related injury or ill health
negative impacts on health arising from exposure to hazards at work
Source: International Labour Organization (ILO), Guidelines on Occupational Safety and
Health Management Systems, ILO-OSH 2001, 2001; modified
Note 1: ‘Ill health’ indicates damage to health and includes diseases, illnesses, and
disorders. The terms ‘disease’, ‘illness’, and ‘disorder’ are often used
interchangeably and refer to conditions with specific symptoms and diagnoses.
Note 2: Work-related injuries and ill health are those that arise from exposure to hazards at
work. Other types of incident can occur that are not connected with the work itself.
For example, the following incidents are not considered to be work related:
• a worker suffers a heart attack while at work that is unconnected with work;
• a worker driving to or from work is injured in a car accident (where driving is not
part of the work, and where the transport has not been organized by the
employer);
• a worker with epilepsy has a seizure at work that is unconnected with work.
74 GRI 11: Oil and Gas Sector 2021
Note 3: Traveling for work: Injuries and ill health that occur while a worker is traveling are
work related if, at the time of the injury or ill health, the worker was engaged in work
activities ‘in the interest of the employer’. Examples of such activities include
traveling to and from customer contacts; conducting job tasks; and entertaining or
being entertained to transact, discuss, or promote business (at the direction of the
employer).
Working at home: Injuries and ill health that occur when working at home are work
related if the injury or ill health occurs while the worker is performing work at home,
and the injury or ill health is directly related to the performance of work rather than
the general home environment or setting.
Mental illness: A mental illness is considered to be work related if it has been
notified voluntarily by the worker and is supported by an opinion from a licensed
healthcare professional with appropriate training and experience stating that the
illness is work related.
For more guidance on determining ‘work-relatedness’, see the United States
Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Determination of work-relatedness
1904.5, https://www.osha.gov/pls/ oshaweb/owadisp.show_document?
p_table=STANDARDS&p_id=9636, accessed on 1 June 2018.
Note 4: The terms ‘occupational’ and ‘work-related’ are often used interchangeably.
worker
person that performs work for the organization
Examples: employees, agency workers, apprentices, contractors, home workers, interns, self-
employed persons, sub-contractors, volunteers, and persons working for
organizations other than the reporting organization, such as for suppliers
Note: In the GRI Standards, in some cases, it is specified whether a particular subset of
workers is required to be used.
Bibliography
75 GRI 11: Oil and Gas Sector 2021
Bibliography
This section lists authoritative intergovernmental instruments and additional references used in developing this
Standard, as well as resources that can be consulted by the organization.
Introduction
1. European Communities, NACE Rev.2, Statistical classification of economic activities in the European Community
(NACE), Eurostat, Methodologies and Working Papers, 2008.
2. Executive Office of the President, Office Of Management and Budget, North American Industry Classification
System (NAICS),
3. FTSE Russell, ICB Structure. Taxonomy Overview, 2019.
4. S&P Dow Jones Indices and MSCI Inc., Revisions to the Global Industry Classification Standard (GICS®)
Structure, 2018.
5. Sustainable Accounting Standards Boards (SASB), Sustainable Industry Classification System® (SICS®),
sasb.org/find-your-industry/, accessed on 27 May 2021.
6. United Nations, International Standard Industrial Classification of All Economic Activities, Revision 4, Statistical
Papers Series M No. 4/Rev.4, 2008.
Sector profile
Authoritative instruments:
7. United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), Paris Agreement, 2015.
8. United Nations General Assembly, Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on 25 September 2015.
Transforming our world: the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, 2015 (A/RES/70/1).
Additional references:
9. United Nations, Rio Declaration on Environment and Development, 1992.
10. Cordaid, Informing Local Communities, Civil Society and Local Government about Oil & Gas: A Practical Guide
on Technical Aspects, 2016.
11. F. Denton, T. J. Wilbanks, et al., ‘Climate-Resilient Pathways: Adaptation, Mitigation, and Sustainable
Development’, Climate Change 2014: Impacts, Adaptation, and Vulnerability. Part A: Global and Sectoral
Aspects. Contribution of Working Group II to the Fifth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on
Climate Change, 2014.
12. International Energy Agency (IEA), Net-zero by 2050: A Roadmap for the Global Energy Sector, 2021.
13. International Energy Agency (IEA), World Energy Balances: Overview, 2020.
14. International Finance Corporation (IFC), International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation
Association (IPIECA), United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), Mapping the oil and gas industry to the
development goals: An atlas, 2017.
15. International Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), Global Warming of 1.5°C, 2018.
16. International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association (IPIECA), World Business Council on
Sustainable Development (WBCSD), Accelerating action: an SDG Roadmap for the oil and gas sector, 2021.
17. Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) and International Energy Agency (IEA),
OECD Green Growth Studies: Energy, 2011.
18. United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), Emissions Gap Report 2019, 2019.
19. World Bank, Access to Electricity, worldbank.org/indicator/EG.ELC.ACCS.ZS, accessed on 31 May 2020.
20. World Economic Forum (WEF), Which economies are most reliant on oil?, weforum.org/agenda/2016/05/which-
economies-are-most-reliant-on-oil/, accessed 03 May 2021.
Resources:
21. GRI, Linking the SDGs and the GRI Standards, updated regularly.
22. GRI and UN Global Compact, Integrating the SDGs into corporate reporting: A practical guide, 2018.
Topic 11.1 GHG emissions
76 GRI 11: Oil and Gas Sector 2021
Authoritative instruments:
23. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), Climate Change 2007: The Physical Science Basis, 2007.
24. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), Climate Change 2014: Synthesis Report, 2014.
25. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), Good Practice Guidance and Uncertainty Management in
National Greenhouse Gas Inventories, 2001.
Additional references:
26. Carbon Brief, Methane emissions from fossil fuels ‘severely underestimated’, 2020, carbonbrief.org/methane-
emissions-from-fossil-fuels-severely-underestimated, accessed on 31 May 2020.
27. Climate Disclosure Project (CDP), CDP Technical Note: Guidance methodology for estimation of Scope 3
category 11 emissions for oil and gas companies, 2021.
28. Environmental Defense Fund (EDF), Taking Aim: Hitting the mark on oil and gas methane targets, 2018.
29. Ernst & Young (EY), Unconventional oil and gas in a carbon constrained world: A review of the environmental
risks and future outlook for unconventional oil and gas, 2017.
30. P. Forster, V. Ramaswamy, et al., ‘Changes in Atmospheric Constituents and in Radiative Forcing’, Climate
Change 2007: The Physical Science Basis, 2007.
31. Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences, Oil and natural gas production emit more
methane than previously thought, 2021.
32. International Energy Agency (IEA), Energy Efficiency 2018: Analysis and Outlooks to 2040, 2018.
33. International Energy Agency (IEA), CO Emissions from Fuel Combustion Highlights, 2019, iea.org/data-and-
2
statistics/data-products, accessed on 22 April 2021.
34. International Energy Agency (IEA), Flaring Emissions, 2020.
35. International Energy Agency (IEA), Methane Tracker, iea.org/reports/methane-tracker-2020, accessed on 31 May
2020.
36. International Energy Agency (IEA), The Oil and Gas Industry in Energy Transitions: World Energy Outlook special
report, 2020.
37. International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association (IPIECA) and American Petroleum
Institute (API), Estimating petroleum industry value chain (Scope 3) greenhouse gas emissions: Overview of
methodologies, 2016.
38. International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association (IPIECA), American Petroleum Institute
(API), and International Association of Oil & Gas Producers (IOGP), Oil and gas industry guidance on voluntary
sustainability reporting, 3rd ed., 2015.
39. International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association (IPIECA), Saving energy in the oil and
gas industry, 2013.
40. The Energy Resources Institute (TERI), Towards an Energy Efficient Oil & Gas Sector, 2015.
41. United Nations Climate Change (UNFCC), What do adaptation to climate change and climate resilience mean?,
2020, unfccc.int/topics/adaptation-and-resilience/the-big-picture/what-do-adaptation-to-climate-change-and-
climate-resilience-mean, accessed on 31 May 2020.
42. United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) and Climate and Clean Air Coalition (CCAC) Oil and Gas
Methane Partnership (OGMP) 2.0 Framework, 2020.
43. United States Energy Information Administration (EIA), Assumptions to the Annual Energy Outlook 2019:
Industrial Demand Module, 2019.
44. United States Energy Information Administration (EIA), Natural gas explained, eia.gov/energyexplained/natural-
gas/, accessed on 31 May 2020.
45. United States Environmental Protection Agency (US EPA), Overview of Greenhouse Gases,
epa.gov/ghgemissions/overview-greenhouse-gases#methane, accessed on 31 May 2020.
46. World Bank, Global Gas Flaring Reduction Partnership (GFFR), worldbank.org/en/programs/gasflaringreduction,
accessed on 1 June 2021.
47. World Bank, Increased Shale Oil Production and Political Conflict Contribute to Increase in Global Gas Flaring,
2019, worldbank.org/en/news/press-release/2019/06/12/increased-shale-oil-production-and-political-conflict-
contribute-to-increase-in-global-gas-flaring, accessed on 31 May 2020.
48. World Bank, Zero Routine Flaring by 2030, worldbank.org/en/programs/zero-routine-flaring-by-2030#7, accessed
on 31 May 2020.
49. World Resources Institute, Estimating and Reporting the Comparative Emissions Impacts of Products, 2019.
77 GRI 11: Oil and Gas Sector 2021
Resources:
50. Climate Disclosure Project (CDP), CDP Technical Note: Guidance methodology for estimation of Scope 3
category 11 emissions for oil and gas companies, 2021.
51. Greenhouse Gas Protocol, Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard, 2011.
52. Greenhouse Gas Protocol, Global Warming Potential Values, 2015.
53. International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association (IPIECA) and American Petroleum
Institute (API), Estimating petroleum industry value chain (Scope 3) greenhouse gas emissions: Overview of
methodologies, 2016.
54. International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association (IPIECA), American Petroleum Institute
(API), International Association of Oil & Gas Producers (IOGP), Sustainability reporting guidance for the oil and
gas industry, 2020.
55. United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) and Climate and Clean Air Coalition (CCAC) Oil and Gas
Methane Partnership (OGMP) 2.0 Framework, 2020.
56. World Bank, Global Gas Flaring Reduction Partnership (GFFR), worldbank.org/en/programs/gasflaringreduction,
accessed on 1 June 2021.
57. World Resources Institute, Estimating and Reporting the Comparative Emissions Impacts of Products, 2019.
Topic 11.2 Climate adaptation, resilience, and transition
Authoritative instruments:
58. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), Global Warming of 1.5°C. An IPCC Special Report on the
impacts of global warming of 1.5°C above pre-industrial levels and related global greenhouse gas emission
pathways, in the context of strengthening the global response to the threat of climate change, sustainable
development, and efforts to eradicate poverty, 2018.
59. United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), Paris Agreement, 2015.
Additional references:
60. A. Dagnachew, A. F. Hof, et al., Insight into Energy Scenarios: A comparison of key transition indicators of 2˚C
scenarios, 2019.
61. C. Symon, Climate change: Action, trends and implications for business: The IPCC’s Fifth Assessment Report,
Working Group 1, 2013.
62. Carbon Tracker Initiative, Balancing the Budget: Why deflating the carbon bubble requires oil & gas companies
to shrink, 2019, carbontracker.org/reports/balancing-the-budget/, accessed on 31 May 2020.
63. Carbon Tracker Initiative, Carbon Budgets Explainer, 2018.
64. Carbon Tracker, Unburnable Carbon: Are the World’s Financial Markets Carrying a Carbon Bubble?, 2011.
65. E. Stuart, Leaving No One Behind in Sustainable Development Pathways, wri.org/climate/expert-
perspective/leaving-no-one-behind-sustainable-development-pathways, accessed on 31 May 2020.
66. F. Denton, T. J. Wilbanks, et al., ‘Climate-Resilient Pathways: Adaptation, Mitigation, and Sustainable
Development’, Climate Change 2014: Impacts, Adaptation, and Vulnerability. Part A: Global and Sectoral
Aspects. Contribution of Working Group II to the Fifth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on
Climate Change, 2014.
67. International Energy Agency (IEA), Net-zero by 2050: A Roadmap for the Global Energy Sector, 2021.
68. International Energy Agency (IEA), The Oil and Gas Industry in Energy Transitions: World Energy Outlook special
report, 2020.
69. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), Special Report on Carbon Dioxide Capture and Storage,
2005.
70. International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association (IPIECA), Addressing adaptation in the
oil and gas industry, 2013.
71. International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN), Resolution adopted at the 2016 World Conservation
Congress. Defining Nature-based Solutions, (WCC-2016-Res-069-EN)
72. J. G. J. Olivier and J. A. H. W. Peters, Trends in global CO and total greenhouse gas emissions: 2019 Report,
2
2020.
73. L. Fletcher, T. Crocker, et al., Beyond the cycle: Which oil and gas companies are ready for the low-carbon
transition? Executive summary, 2018.
74. M. F. Rahman, M. Mostofa, and S. Huq, Low-Carbon Futures in Least-Developed Countries,
78 GRI 11: Oil and Gas Sector 2021
wri.org/climate/expert-perspective/low-carbon-futures-least-developed-countries, accessed on 31 May 2020.
75. Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) and International Energy Agency (IEA),
OECD Green Growth Studies: Energy, 2011.
76. Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), Monitoring the transition to a low-carbon
economy: A strategic approach to local development, 2015.
77. R. Hutt, Which economies are most reliant on oil?, weforum.org/agenda/2016/05/which-economies-are-most-
reliant-on-oil/ , accessed on 31 May 2020.
78. Science Based Targets, Oil and Gas, sciencebasedtargets.org/sectors/oil-and-gas, accessed on 31 May 2021.
79. Stockholm Environment Institute (SEI), International Institute for Sustainable Development (IISD), Overseas
Development Institute (ODI), Climate Analytics, CICERO, and United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP),
The Production Gap: The discrepancy between countries’ planned fossil fuel production and global production
levels consistent with limiting warming to 1.5°C or 2°C, 2019.
80. Stockholm Environment Institute (SEI), International Institute for Sustainable Development (IISD), Overseas
Development Institute (ODI), Third Generation Environmentalism (E3G), and United Nations Environment
Programme (UNEP), The Production Gap Report: 2020 Special Report, 2021.
81. T. Bruckner, I. A. Bashmakov, et al., ‘Energy Systems’, Mitigation of Climate Change 2014: Mitigation of Climate
Change. Contribution of Working Group III to the Fifth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on
Climate Change, 2014.
82. Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosure (TCFD), The Use of Scenario Analysis in Disclosure of
Climate-Related Risks and Opportunities, 2017.
83. World Resources Institute (WRI), A Recommended Methodology for Estimating and Reporting the Potential
Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Fossil Fuel Reserves, 2016.
Resources:
84. Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosure (TCFD), Recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-
related Financial Disclosure, 2017.
85. Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosure (TCFD), The Use of Scenario Analysis in Disclosure of
Climate-Related Risks and Opportunities, 2017.
86. Transition Pathway Initiative (TPI), Methodology and Indicators Report, 2019.
87. World Resources Institute (WRI), A Recommended Methodology for Estimating and Reporting the Potential
Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Fossil Fuel Reserves, 2016.
Topic 11.3 Air emissions
Additional references:
88. Earthworks, Air pollution from the Oil and Gas Industry, earthworks.org/publications/fs_oilandgas_airpollution,
accessed on 31 May 2020.
89. United States Environmental Protection Agency (US EPA), Controlling Air Pollution from the Oil and Natural Gas
Industry, epa.gov/controlling-air-pollution-oil-and-natural-gas-industry, accessed on 1 June 2021.
90. International Energy Agency (IEA), Energy and Air Pollution: World Energy Outlook Special Report, 2016.
91. International Finance Corporation (IFC), Environmental, Health, and Safety Guidelines for Gas Distribution
Systems, 2007.
92. United Nations Economic Commission for Europe (UNECE), Air pollution, ecosystems and biodiversity,
unece.org/air-pollution-ecosystems-and-biodiversity, accessed on 31 May 2020.
93. World Health Organization (WHO), Air pollution, who.int/health-topics/air-pollution#tab=tab_1, accessed on 31
May 2020.
94. World Health Organization (WHO), Air pollution and child health: Prescribing clean air, advance copy, 2018.
Resources:
95. International Finance Corporation (IFC), Environmental, Health, and Safety Guidelines for Crude Oil and
Petroleum Product Terminals, 2007.
96. International Finance Corporation (IFC), Environmental, Health, and Safety Guidelines for Liquefied Natural Gas
Facilities, 2017.
97. International Finance Corporation (IFC), Environmental, Health, and Safety Guidelines for Natural Gas
Processing, 2017.
79 GRI 11: Oil and Gas Sector 2021
98. International Finance Corporation (IFC), Environmental, Health, and Safety Guidelines for Offshore Oil and Gas
Development, 2015.
99. International Finance Corporation (IFC), Environmental, Health, and Safety Guidelines for Onshore Oil and Gas
Development, 2017.
100.International Finance Corporation (IFC), Environmental, Health, and Safety Guidelines for Petroleum Refining,
2016.
101.International Finance Corporation (IFC), Environmental, Health, and Safety Guidelines for Retail Petroleum
Networks, 2007.
Topic 11.4 Biodiversity
Authoritative instruments:
102.Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), Climate Change and Biodiversity, 2002.
103.Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), Climate Change and Land – An IPCC Special Report on
climate change, desertification, land degradation, sustainable land management, food security, and greenhouse
gas fluxes in terrestrial ecosystems: Summary for Policymakers, 2019.
Additional references:
104.N. Butt, H. L. Beyer, et al., Biodiversity Risks from Fossil Fuel Extraction, Science, 2013.
105.Cross-Sector Biodiversity Initiative (CSBI), A cross-sector guide for implementing the Mitigation Hierarchy, 2015.
106.The Energy & Biodiversity Initiative (EBI), Integrating Biodiversity Conservation into Oil & Gas Development, 2003.
107.M. B. J. Harfoot, D. P. Tittensor, et al., Present and future biodiversity risks from fossil fuel exploitation,
Conservation Letters, 2018.
108.International Finance Corporation (IFC), Guidance Note 6: Biodiversity Conservation and Sustainable
Management of Natural Resources, 2019.
109.International Finance Corporation (IFC), Performance Standard 6: Biodiversity Conservation and Sustainable
Management of Natural Resources, 2012.
110.International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association (IPIECA), International Association of
Oil & Gas Producers (IOGP), Biodiversity and ecosystem services fundamentals, 2016.
111.International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN), Issues Brief: Biodiversity offsets,
iucn.org/resources/issues-briefs/biodiversity-offsets, accessed on 26 May 2021.
112.K. Leach, S. E. Brooks, and S. Blyth, Potential threat to areas of biodiversity importance from current and
emerging oil and gas activities in Africa, 2016.
113.Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), Biodiversity Offsets: Effective Design and
Implementation, 2016.
114.Pembina Institute, Fact sheet: Resource development in the North. Impacts of the cumulative effects of oil & gas,
2006.
115.United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) and UN Environment Conservation Monitoring Center (UNEP-
WCMC), Mainstreaming of Biodiversity into the Energy and Mining Sectors: An Information Document for the 21st
Meeting of the Subsidiary Body on Scientific, Technical and Technological Advice (SBSTTA-21), 2017.
116.World Bank, Biodiversity Offsets: A User Guide, 2016.
Resources:
117.Integrated Biodiversity Assessment Tool (IBAT) Alliance, Integrated Biodiversity Assessment Tool, ibat-
alliance.org/, accessed on 2 June 2021.
118.International Council for Mining and Metals (ICMM), International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation
Association (IPIECA), and Equator Principles, A cross-sector guide for implementing the Mitigation Hierarchy,
2017.
119.International Finance Corporation (IFC), Guidance Note 6: Biodiversity Conservation and Sustainable
Management of Natural Resources, 2019.
120.International Finance Corporation (IFC), Performance Standard 6: Biodiversity Conservation and Sustainable
Management of Natural Resources, 2012.
121.International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association (IPIECA), International Association of
Oil & Gas Producers (IOGP), Biodiversity and ecosystem services fundamentals, 2016.
80 GRI 11: Oil and Gas Sector 2021
Topic 11.5 Waste
Additional references:
122.Alberta Energy Regulator, Tailings, aer.ca/providing-information/by-topic/tailings, accessed on 31 May 2020.
123.Alberta Government, Lower Athabasca Region: Tailings Management Framework for the Mineable Athabasca Oil
Sands, 2015.
124.P. D. Cameron and M. C. Stanley, Oil, Gas, and Mining: A Sourcebook for Understanding the Extractive Industries,
2017.
125.Canada’s Oil Sands, Tailings Ponds, capp.ca/explore/tailings-ponds/, accessed on 31 May 2020.
126.Circle Economy, The Circularity Gap Report, 2019.
127.European Commission, Mining waste, ec.europa.eu/environment/topics/waste-and-recycling/mining-waste_en,
accessed on 31 May 2020.
128.International Association of Oil & Gas Producers (IOGP), Drilling Waste Management Technology Review, 2016.
129.International Association of Oil & Gas Producers (IOGP), Environmental management in Arctic oil & gas
operations: Good practice guide, 2013.
130.International Association of Oil & Gas Producers (IOGP), Guidelines for waste management with special focus on
areas with limited infrastructure, 2008.
131.International Finance Corporation (IFC), Environmental, Health, and Safety Guidelines for Crude Oil and
Petroleum Product Terminals, 2007.
132.International Finance Corporation (IFC), Environmental, Health, and Safety Guidelines for Gas Distribution
Systems, 2007.
133.International Finance Corporation (IFC), Environmental, Health, and Safety Guidelines for Liquefied Natural Gas
Facilities, 2017.
134.International Finance Corporation (IFC), Environmental, Health, and Safety Guidelines for Mining, 2007.
135.International Finance Corporation (IFC), Environmental, Health, and Safety Guidelines for Natural Gas
Processing, 2017.
136.International Finance Corporation (IFC), Environmental, Health, and Safety Guidelines for Offshore Oil and Gas
Development, 2015.
137.International Finance Corporation (IFC), Environmental, Health, and Safety Guidelines for Onshore Oil and Gas
Development, 2007.
138.International Finance Corporation (IFC), Environmental, Health, and Safety Guidelines for Petroleum Refining,
2016.
139.International Finance Corporation (IFC), Environmental, Health, and Safety Guidelines for Retail Petroleum
Networks, 2007.
140.International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association (IPIECA), Petroleum refinery waste
management and minimization, 2014.
141.Union of Concerned Scientists (UCS), The Hidden Cost of Fossil Fuels, 2008, ucsusa.org/resources/hidden-
costs-fossil-fuels, accessed on 31 May 2020.
142.United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), Circular Economy Principles for NDCs and Long-term
Strategies, 2019.
143.United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), Towards a Pollution-Free Planet, 2017.
144.United Nations Environment Programme Industry and Environment (UNEP IE), Environmental management in oil
and gas exploration and production: An overview of issues and management approaches, 1997.
145.United States Environmental Protection Agency (US EPA), Management of Exploration, Development and
Production Wastes: Factors Informing a Decision on the Need for Regulatory Action, 2019.
Resources:
146.International Association of Oil & Gas Producers (IOGP), Drilling waste management technology review, 2016.
147.International Association of Oil & Gas Producers (IOGP), Guidelines for waste management with special focus on
areas with limited infrastructure, 2008.
148.International Finance Corporation (IFC), Environmental, Health, and Safety Guidelines for Waste Management,
2007.
149.International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association (IPIECA), Petroleum refinery waste
management and minimization, 2014.
81 GRI 11: Oil and Gas Sector 2021
150.United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), International Council for Mining and Metals (ICMM), and
Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI), Global Tailings Standard, 2020.
Topic 11.6 Water and effluents
Additional references:
151.L. Allen, M. Cohen, et al., ‘Fossil Fuels and Water Quality’, The World's Water Volume 7: The Biennial Report on
Freshwater Resources, pp. 73-96, 2011.
152.P. D. Cameron and M. C. Stanley, Oil, Gas, and Mining: A Sourcebook for Understanding the Extractive Industries,
2017.
153.International Energy Agency (IEA), Water Energy Nexus: Excerpt from the World Energy Outlook 2016, 2016.
154.International Energy Agency (IEA), ‘Water for Energy’, World Energy Outlook 2012, pp. 501-527, 2012.
155.S. Osborn, A. Vengosh, et al., Methane contamination of drinking water accompanying gas-well drilling and
hydraulic fracturing, Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, 2011.
156.United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD), Commodities at a Glance: Special Issue on
Shale Gas, 2017.
157.United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), Towards a Pollution-Free Planet, 2017.
158.United States Environmental Protection Agency (US EPA), Hydraulic Fracturing for Oil and Gas: Impacts from the
Hydraulic Fracturing Water Cycle on Drinking Water Resources in the United States, 2016.
159.United States Environmental Protection Agency (US EPA), Profile of the Fossil Fuel Electric Power Generation
Industry, 1997.
160.United States Environmental Protection Agency (US EPA), Study of Oil and Gas Extraction Wastewater
Management Under the Clean Water Act, EPA‐821‐R19‐001, draft May 2019.
161.World Bank, Thirsty Energy (II): The Importance of Water for Oil and Gas Extraction, 2016.
Resources:
162.International Council for Mining and Metals (ICMM), Water Stewardship Framework, 2014.
163.International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association (IPIECA), The IPIECA Water
Management Framework for onshore oil and gas activities, 2013.
Topic 11.7 Closure and rehabilitation
Authoritative instruments:
164.International Maritime Organization (IMO), Guidelines and Standards for the Removal of Offshore Installations and
Structures on the Continental Shelf and in the Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ), 1989.
165.United Nations (UN), United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS III), 1982.
Additional references:
166.P. D. Cameron and M. C. Stanley, Oil, Gas, and Mining: A Sourcebook for Understanding the Extractive Industries,
2017.
167.Environmental Protection Authority (EPA Western Australia), Environmental Factor Guideline: Benthic
Communities and Habitats, 2016.
168.International Association of Oil & Gas Producers (IOGP), Decommissioning of offshore concrete gravity-based
structures (CGBS) in the OSPAR maritime area/other global regions IOGP Report 484, 2018.
169.International Association of Oil & Gas Producers (IOGP), Overview of International Offshore Decommissioning
Regulations – Volume 1: Facilities IOGP Report 584, 2017.
170.International Association of Oil & Gas Producers (IOGP), Overview of International Offshore Decommissioning
Regulations – Volume 2: Wells Plugging & Abandonment IOGP Report 585, 2017.
171.Merriam-Webster, Benthic, merriam-webster.com/dictionary/benthic, accessed on 26 May 2021.
172.Trevisanut, ‘Decommissioning of Offshore Installations: a Fragmented and Ineffective International Regulatory
Framework’, The Law of the Seabed, pp. 431-453, 2020.
173.United Nations Environment Programme Industry and Environment (UNEP IE), Environmental management in oil
and gas exploration and production: An overview of issues and management approaches, 1997.
174.World Bank, Towards Sustainable Decommissioning and Closure of Oil Fields and Mines: A Toolkit to Assist
Government Agencies, 2010.
82 GRI 11: Oil and Gas Sector 2021
Resources:
175.International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association (IPIECA), Oil and gas industry
guidance on voluntary sustainability reporting, 3rd ed., 2015.
176.United Nations, Guidance Note on the Tax Treatment of Decommissioning for the Extractive Industries, 2016.
Topic 11.8 Asset integrity and critical incident management
Additional references:
177.Alberta Energy Regulator, Tailings, aer.ca/providing-information/by-topic/tailings, accessed on 31 May 2020.
178.Alberta Government, Lower Athabasca Region: Tailings Management Framework for the Mineable Athabasca Oil
Sands, 2015.
179.American Petroleum Institute (API), Recommended Practice 754: Process Safety Performance Indicators For The
Refining And Petrochemical Industries, updated periodically.
180.Australian National University (ANU) and Investor Group on Climate Change (IGCC), Assessing Climate Change
Risks and Opportunities, Oil and Gas Sector, 2013.
181.Canada’s Oil Sands, Tailings Ponds, capp.ca/explore/tailings-ponds/, accessed on 31 May 2020.
182.M. Christou and M. Konstantinidou, Safety of offshore oil and gas operations: Lessons from past accident
analysis, 2012.
183.Environmental Defense Fund (EDF), Why are natural gas leaks a problem?,
edf.org/climate/methanemaps/leaks-problem, accessed on 31 May 2020.
184.International Association of Oil & Gas Producers (IOGP), Asset integrity: the key to managing major incident risks,
2018.
185.International Association of Oil & Gas Producers (IOGP), Process safety: recommended practice on key
performance indicators, 2018.
186.International Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM), United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), and
Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI), Global Industry Standard on Tailings Management, 2020.
187.Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), Guidance on Developing Safety
Performance Indicators Related to Chemical Accident Prevention, Preparedness and Response for Industry,
2008.
188.Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (PHMSA), Pipeline Incident 20 Year Trends,
phmsa.dot.gov/data-and-statistics/pipeline/pipeline-incident-20-year-trends, accessed on 31 May 2020.
189.R. Sullivan, D. Russell, et al., Managing the Unavoidable: investment implications of a changing climate, 2009.
190.UK Health and Safety Executive, Step-By-Step Guide to Developing Process Safety Performance Indicators, 2006.
191.United Nations Environment Programme Industry and Environment (UNEP IE), Environmental management in oil
and gas exploration and production: An overview of issues and management approaches, 1997.
192.United States Environmental Protection Agency (US EPA), Oil and Natural Gas Sector Leaks, 2014.
193.T. Williams, Pipelines: Environmental Considerations, Ottawa, Canada, Library of Parliament, 2012.
Resources:
194.American Petroleum Institute (API), Recommended Practice 754: Process Safety Performance Indicators For The
Refining And Petrochemical Industries, updated periodically.
195.International Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM), United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), and
Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI), Global Industry Standard on Tailings Management, 2020.
196.International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association (IPIECA), Oil and gas industry
guidance on voluntary sustainability reporting, 3rd ed., 2015.
197.United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), International Council for Mining and Metals (ICMM), and
Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI), Global Industry Standard on Tailings Management, 2020.
Topic 11.9 Occupational health and safety
Additional references:
198.The Advocates for Human Rights, Promoting Gender Diversity and Inclusion in the Oil, Gas and Mining Extractive
Industries: A Women’s Human Rights Report, 2019.
199.Canadian Centre for Occupational Health and Safety (CCOHS), Cold Environments: Working in the Cold,
ccohs.ca/oshanswers/phys_agents/cold_working.html, accessed on 31 May 2020.
83 GRI 11: Oil and Gas Sector 2021
200.Health and Safety Executive (HSE), Biological hazards, hse.gov.uk/offshore/biological-hazards.htm, accessed on
31 May 2020.
201.Health and Safety Executive (HSE), Heat stress, hse.gov.uk/temperature/heatstress/, accessed on 31 May 2020.
202.International Association of Oil & Gas Producers (IOGP), Safety performance indicators – 2018 data – Fatal
incident reports, 2018.
203.International Labour Organization (ILO), Current and future skills, human resources development and safety
training for contractors in the oil and gas industry, 2012.
204.International Labour Organization (ILO), Oil and gas production and oil refining sector, ilo.org/global/industries-
and-sectors/oil-and-gas-production-oil-refining/lang--en/index.htm, accessed on 31 May 2020.
205.International Labour Organization (ILO), Social dialogue and industrial relations issues in the oil industry, 2009.
206.International Labour Organization (ILO), Working Paper No. 276: Working conditions of contract workers in the oil
and gas industries, 2010.
207.International Labour Organization (ILO), Working towards sustainable development: Opportunities for decent
work and social inclusion in a green economy, 2012.
208.International Association of Oil & Gas Producers (IOGP) – International Petroleum Industry Environmental
Conservation Association (IPIECA), Health leading performance indicators, updated annually.
209.International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association (IPIECA), Human Rights Training Tool,
3rd ed., 2014.
210.International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association (IPIECA) and International Association
of Oil & Gas Producers (IOGP), Managing psychosocial risks on expatriation in the oil and gas industry, 2013.
211.Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA), Health and Safety Risks for Workers Involved in Manual
Tank Gauging and Sampling at Oil and Gas Extraction Sites, 2016.
212.Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) US Department of Labor, Hydrogen Sulfide: Hazards,
osha.gov/hydrogen-sulfide, accessed on 31 May 2020.
213.Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) US Department of Labor, Silica, Crystalline: Health
Effects, osha.gov/silica-crystalline, accessed on 31 May 2020.
214.World Health Organization (WHO), Preventing Disease through Healthy Environments: Exposure to Benzene: A
Major Public Health Concern, 2010.
215.Wipro, Safety and Health Management in Oil and Gas Industry, wipro.com/oil-and-gas/safety-and-health-
management-system-in-oil-and-gas-industry/, accessed on 31 May 2020.
216.World Nuclear Association, Naturally-Occurring Radioactive Materials, 2019, world-nuclear.org/information-
library/safety-and-security/radiation-and-health/naturally-occurring-radioactive-materials-norm.aspx, accessed
on 31 May 2020.
Resources:
217.International Association of Oil & Gas Producers (IOGP) – International Petroleum Industry Environmental
Conservation Association (IPIECA), Health management in the oil and gas industry, 2019.
218.International Association of Oil & Gas Producers (IOGP) – International Petroleum Industry Environmental
Conservation Association (IPIECA), Health Performance Indicators: A guide for the oil and gas industry, 2007.
219.International Association of Oil & Gas Producers (IOGP) – International Petroleum Industry Environmental
Conservation Association (IPIECA), Performance indicators for fatigue risk management systems, 2012.
Topic 11.10 Employment practices
Authoritative instruments:
220.International Labour Organization (ILO), Maritime Labour Convention, 2006.
221.Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), Due Diligence Guidance for Meaningful
Stakeholder Engagement in the Extractives Sector, 2015.
Additional references:
222.C. Forde, R. MacKenzie, et al., Good industrial relations in the oil industry in the United Kingdom, 2005.
223.C. Hidalgo, K. Peterson, et al., Extracting with Purpose: Creating Shared Value in the Oil and Gas and Mining
Sectors’ Companies and Communities, 2015.
224.IndustriaAll Global Union, Nigerian oil and gas unions fight against precarious work, 8 August 2017, industriall-
union.org/nigerian-oil-and-gas-unions-fight-against-precarious-work,accessed on 31 May 2020.
84 GRI 11: Oil and Gas Sector 2021
225.IndustriAll Global Union, Norwegian oil company DNO targeted by unions, 12 January 2017, industriall-
union.org/norwegian-oil-company-dno-targeted-by-unions, accessed on 31 May 2020.
226.IndustriAll Global Union, Shell’s hidden shame: Contract workers on the poverty line in Nigeria, 5 December
2018, industriall-union.org/shells-hidden-shame-contract-workers-on-the-poverty-line-in-nigeria, accessed on
31 May 2020.
227.Industri Energi, The strike is necessary to level out differences in the oil industry, 7 October 2016,
industrienergi.no/nyhet/the-strike-is-necessary-to-level-out-differences-in-the-oil-industry/, accessed on 31 May
2020.
228.Institute for Human Rights and Business (IHRB) and Shift, Oil and Gas Sector Guide on Implementing the UN
Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, 2017.
229.International Finance Corporation (IFC), IPIECA, and United Nations Development Programme (UNDP),
Mapping the oil and gas industry to the Sustainable Development Goals: An Atlas, 2017.
230.International Labour Organization (ILO), Social dialogue and industrial relations issues in the oil industry: Report
for discussion at the Tripartite Meeting on Promoting Social Dialogue and Good Industrial Relations from Oil and
Gas Exploration and Production to Oil and Gas Distribution, 2009.
231.F. Todd, What are the pros and cons of automation in the oil and gas industry?, 19 March 2019,
nsenergybusiness.com/features/oil-and-gas-automation, accessed on 31 May 2020.
232.S. Tordo, M. Warner, et al., Local Content Policies in the Oil and Gas Sector, 2013.
233.United Steelworkers (USW), National Oil Bargaining Talks Break Down: USW Calls for Work Stoppage at Nine
Oil Refineries, Plants, 1 February 2015, usw.org/news/media-center/releases/2015/national-oil-bargaining-
talks-break-down-usw-calls-for-work-stoppage-at-nine-oil-refineries-plants, accessed on 31 May 2020.
Topic 11.11 Non-discrimination and equal opportunity
Additional references:
234.The Advocates for Human Rights, Promoting Gender Diversity and Inclusion in the Oil, Gas and Mining Extractive
Industries: A Women’s Human Rights Report, 2019.
235.The Boston Consulting Group (BCG) and World Petroleum Council, Untapped Reserves: Promoting Gender
Balance in Oil and Gas, 2017.
236.Business & Human Rights Resource Centre (BHRRC), Azerbaijan: Abuses by oil companies include workplace
discrimination, illegal termination of contracts, health & safety violations, sexual harassment, environmental
pollution, say NGO reports; includes company comments, business-humanrights.org/en/latest-news/azerbaijan-
abuses-by-oil-companies-include-workplace-discrimination-illegal-termination-of-contracts-health-safety-
violations-sexual-harassment-environmental-pollution-say-ngo-reports-includes-company-comments/,
accessed on 31 May 2020.
237.Digby Brown Solicitors, Oil and Gas contract restrictions removed after discrimination employment advice,
digbybrown.co.uk/clients-we-have-helped/oil-and-gas-contract-restrictions-removed-after-discrimination-
employment, accessed on 31 May 2020.
238.N. Hill, A. Alook, and I. Hussey, How gender and race shape experiences of work in Alberta’s oil industry,
parklandinstitute.ca/how_gender_and_race_shape_experiences_of_work_in_albertas_oil_industry, accessed
on 31 May 2020.
239.Institute for Human Rights and Business (IHRB) and Shift, Oil and Gas Sector Guide on Implementing the UN
Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, 2017.
240.International Labour Organization (ILO), Current and future skills, human resources development and safety
training for contractors in the oil and gas industry, 2012.
241.International Labour Organization (ILO), Social dialogue and industrial relations issues in the oil industry, 2009.
242.Iraqi Center for Policy Analysis & Research (ICPAR), Institutional Discrimination in Iraq’s Oil and Gas Sector,
researchiraq.com/?p=306, accessed on 31 May 2020.
243.J. Soper, Ghanaian Workers Fight Pay Discrimination, pulitzercenter.org/stories/ghanaian-workers-fight-pay-
discrimination, accessed on 31 May 2020.
244.United Nations Environment Programme Financial Initiative (UNEP FI), Human Rights Guidance Tool for the
Financial Sector, Oil and Gas, unepfi.org/humanrightstoolkit/oil.php, accessed on 31 May 2020.
Topic 11.12 Forced labor and modern slavery
85 GRI 11: Oil and Gas Sector 2021
Authoritative instruments:
245.International Labour Organization (ILO) Convention 29, Forced Labour Convention, 1930.
Additional references:
246.EarthRights International, Total Impact: The Human Rights, Environmental, and Financial Impacts of Total and
Chevron’s Yadana Gas Project in Military-Ruled Burma (Myanmar), 2009.
247.Fédération Internationale pour les Droits Humains (FIDH), Info Birmanie, la Ligue des droits de l’Homme et la
FIDH dénoncent l’accord intervenu entre Total et Sherpa, 2005.
248.Global Slavery Index, ‘Global Findings’, Global Slavery Index 2018, pp. 24-45.
249.GRI, Responsible Labor Initiative, Advancing modern slavery reporting to meet stakeholder expectations, 2019.
250.International Labour Organization (ILO), Labour Migration in the Arab States, ilo.org/beirut/areasofwork/labour-
migration/WCMS_514910/lang--en/index.htm, accessed on 31 May 2020.
251.International Labour Organization (ILO) and Walk Free Foundation, Global Estimates of Modern Slavery: Forced
Labour and Forced Marriage, 2017.
252.International Transport Workers’ Federation (ITF), ITF and Malaviya Seven crew dismayed by delay,
itfglobal.org/en/news/itf-and-malaviya-seven-crew-dismayed-delay, accessed on 31 May 2020.
253.National Union of Rail, Maritime and Transport Workers (RMT), Modern day slavery charge made by RMT,
rmt.netxtra.net/news/modern-day-slavery-charge-made-by-rmt/, accessed on 31 May 2020.
254.UNICEF, Oil and Gas Scoping Paper, 2015.
Resources:
255.GRI, Responsible Labor Initiative, Advancing modern slavery reporting to meet stakeholder expectations, 2019.
Topic 11.13 Freedom of association and collective bargaining
Authoritative instruments:
256.International Labour Organization (ILO), 386th Report of the Committee on Freedom of Association, 2018.
Additional references:
257.M. Carpenter, Restrictions on freedom of association potential powder keg for oil companies,
maplecroft.com/insights/analysis/restrictions-on-freedom-of-association-potential-powder-keg-for-oil-
companies/, accessed on 31 May 2020.
258.I. Graham, International Labour Organization (ILO), Working conditions of contract workers in the oil and gas
industries, 2010.
259.IndustriAll, Nigerian oil and gas unions fight against precarious work, industriall-union.org/nigerian-oil-and-gas-
unions-fight-against-precarious-work, accessed on 31 May 2020.
260.International Trade Union Confederation (ITUC), ITUC Global Rights Index: The World's Worst Countries for
Workers, 2016.
261.International Trade Union Confederation (ITUC), Saudi Arabia bans trade unions and violates all international
labour standards, ituc-csi.org/saudi-arabia-bans-trade-unions-and?lang=en, accessed on 31 May 2020.
262.United States Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), Country comparison: Crude oil: Exports, cia.gov/the-world-
factbook/field/crude-oil-exports/country-comparison, accessed on 31 May 2020.
Topic 11.14 Economic impacts
Authoritative instruments:
263.Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), OECD Principles for Private Sector
Participation in Infrastructure, 2007.
Additional references:
264.Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, Paper 7: Leveraging extractive industries for skills development to maximize
sustainable growth and employment, 2015.
265.C. Sigam and L. Garcia, Extractive industries: Optimizing the value retention in host countries, 2012.
266.Extractives Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI), Social and economic spending: The impact of the extractive
industries on economic growth and social development, eiti.org/social-economic-spending, accessed on 31
May 2020.
86 GRI 11: Oil and Gas Sector 2021
267.International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association (IPIECA), Local content: A guidance
document for the oil and gas industry, 2nd ed., 2016.
268.J-F. Mercure, H. Pollitt, et al., ‘Macroeconomic impacts of stranded fossil fuels assets’, Nature Climate Change,
vol. 8, pp. 588-593, 2018, nature.com/articles/s41558-018-0182-1, accessed on 31 May 2020.
269.Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), Collaborative Strategies for In-Country
Shared Value Creation, 2016.
270.K. Storey, ‘Fly-in/Fly-out: Implications for Community Sustainability’, Sustainability, vol. 2, pp. 1161-1181, 2010.
271.United Nations Office for Disaster Risk Reduction (UNISDR), ‘Words into Action Guidelines: National Disaster
Risk Assessment’, Special Topics, Direct and Indirect Economic Impact, 2017.
Resources:
Resources:
272.International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association (IPIECA), Local content: A guidance
document for the oil and gas industry, 2nd ed., 2016.
Topic 11.15 Local communities
Authoritative instruments:
273.Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), Due Diligence Guidance for Meaningful
Stakeholder Engagement in the Extractives Sector, 2015.
Additional references:
274.Cordaid, Informing Local Communities, Civil Society and Local Government about Oil & Gas: A Practical Guide
on Technical Aspects, 2016.
275.Cordaid, When Oil, Gas or Mining Arrives in Your Area: Practical Guide for Communities, Civil Society and Local
Government on the Social Aspects of Oil, Gas and Mining, 2016.
276.E&P Forum and United Nations Environment Programme Industry and Environment (UNEP IE), Environmental
management in oil and gas exploration and production: An overview of issues and management approaches,
1997.
277.Institute for Human Rights and Business (IHRB) and Shift, Oil and Gas Sector Guide on Implementing the UN
Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, 2017International Finance Corporation (IFC), Unlocking
Opportunities for Women and Business: A Toolkit of Actions and Strategies for Oil, Gas, and Mining Companies,
2018,
ifc.org/wps/wcm/connect/topics_ext_content/ifc_external_corporate_site/gender+at+ifc/resources/unlocking-
opportunities-for-women-and-business, accessed on 31 May 2020.
278.International Finance Corporation (IFC), International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation
Association (IPIECA), and United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), Mapping the oil and gas industry to
the development goals: An atlas, 2017.
279.International Finance Corporation (IFC), Guidance Note 4 Community Health, Safety, and Security, 2012.
280.International Finance Corporation (IFC), Performance Standard 4 Community Health, Safety, and Security, 2012.
281.Mapping the oil and gas industry to the Sustainable Development Goals: An Atlas, 2017.
282.Oil and Gas Accountability Project (OGAP), Oil and Gas At Your Door? A Landowner’s Guide to Oil and Gas
Development, 2nd ed., 2005.
283.Oxfam International, Position Paper on Gender Justice and the Extractive Industries, 2017.
284.R. Schultz, R. Skoumal, et al., ‘Hydraulic Fracturing‐Induced Seismicity’, Reviews of Geophysics, vol. 58, 12 June
2020.
285.United Nations Environment Programme Financial Initiative (UNEP FI), Human Rights Guidance Tool for the
Financial Sector, Oil and Gas, unepfi.org/humanrightstoolkit/oil.php, accessed on 31 May 2020.
Resources:
286.Institute for Human Rights and Business (IHRB) and Shift, Oil and Gas Sector Guide on Implementing the UN
Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, 2017.
287.International Finance Corporation (IFC), Guidance Note 4 Community Health, Safety, and Security, 2012.
288.International Finance Corporation (IFC), Performance Standard 4 Community Health, Safety, and Security, 2012.
289.International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association (IPIECA), American Petroleum Institute
87 GRI 11: Oil and Gas Sector 2021
(API), and International Association of Oil & Gas Producers (IOGP), Sustainability reporting guidelines for the oil
and gas industry, 2020.
Topic 11.16 Land and resource rights
Authoritative instruments:
290.European Union and UN Interagency Framework Team for Preventive Action, Toolkit and Guidance for
Preventing and Managing Land and Natural Resources Conflict: Land and Conflict, 2012.
291.Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), Due Diligence Guidance for Meaningful
Stakeholder Engagement in the Extractives Sector, 2015.
Additional references:
292.Avocats Sans Frontières, Human Rights Implications of Extractive Industry Activities in Uganda: A Study of the
Mineral Sector in Karamoja and the Oil Refinery in Bunyoro, 2014.
293.P. D. Cameron and M. C. Stanley, Oil, Gas, and Mining: A Sourcebook for Understanding the Extractive Industries,
2017.
294.Intergovernmental Science-Policy Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services (IPBES), Report of the
Plenary of the Intergovernmental Science-Policy Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services on the work of
its seventh session, 2019.
295.International Council on Mining & Metals (ICMM), Land Acquisition and Resettlement, 2015.
296.International Finance Corporation (IFC), Good Practice Handbook: Land Acquisition and Resettlement (draft),
2019.
297.International Finance Corporation (IFC), Guidance Note 5, Land Acquisition and Involuntary Resettlement, 2012.
298.International Finance Corporation (IFC), Performance Standard 5, Land Acquisition and Involuntary
Resettlement, 2012.
299.International Finance Corporation (IFC), Guidance Note 8: Cultural Heritage, 2012.
300.International Finance Corporation (IFC), Performance Standard 8: Cultural Heritage, 2012.
301.International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association (IPIECA) and International Association
of Oil & Gas Producers (IOGP), Key questions in managing social issues in oil & gas projects, 2002.
302.Pensamiento y Acción Social (PAS) and L. Turrriago, ‘Caso El Hatillo: El re-asentamiento como la legalización
del despojo y el acaparamiento de las tierras por el modelo extractivista’, pas.org.co/hatillo-despojo-
extractivista, accessed on 1 June 2020.
303.United Nations Human Rights Office of the High Commissioner (OHCHR), Land and Human Rights,
ohchr.org/EN/Issues/LandAndHR/Pages/LandandHumanRightsIndex.aspx, accessed on 31 May 2020.
304.F. Vanclay, ‘Project-induced displacement and resettlement: from impoverishment risks to an opportunity for
development?’, Impact Assessment and Project Appraisal Journal, vol. 35, pp. 3-21, 2017, DOI:
10.1080/14615517.2017.1278671.
305.United Nations Environment Programme Financial Initiative (UNEP FI), Human Rights Guidance Tool for the
Financial Sector, Oil and Gas, unepfi.org/humanrightstoolkit/oil.php, accessed on 31 May 2020.
Resources:
306.Institute for Human Rights and Business (IHRB) and Shift, Oil and Gas Sector Guide on Implementing the UN
Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, 2017.
307.International Finance Corporation (IFC), Good Practice Handbook: Land Acquisition and Resettlement (draft),
2019.
308.International Finance Corporation (IFC), Guidance Note 5, Land Acquisition and Involuntary Resettlement, 2012.
309.International Finance Corporation (IFC), Performance Standard 5, Land Acquisition and Involuntary
Resettlement, 2012.
310.International Finance Corporation (IFC), Guidance Note 8: Cultural Heritage, 2012.
311.International Finance Corporation (IFC), Performance Standard 8: Cultural Heritage, 2012.
312.United Nations Environment Programme Financial Initiative (UNEP FI), Human Rights Guidance Tool for the
Financial Sector, Oil and Gas, unepfi.org/humanrightstoolkit/oil.php, accessed on 31 May 2020.
88 GRI 11: Oil and Gas Sector 2021
Topic 11.17 Rights of indigenous peoples
Authoritative instruments:
313.International Labour Organization (ILO) Convention 169, Indigenous and Tribal Peoples Convention, 1989.
314.United Nations (UN), United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples (UNDRIP); 2007.
Additional references:
315.The Advocates for Human Rights, Promoting Gender Diversity and Inclusion in the Oil, Gas, and Mining
Extractive Industries, 2019.
316.Amnesty International, Inter-American Court ruling marks key victory for indigenous peoples,
amnesty.org/en/press-releases/2012/07/ecuador-inter-american-court-ruling-marks-key-victory-indigenous-
peoples-20/, accessed on 31 May 2020.
317.Amnesty International, Out of sight, out of mind: Gender, indigenous rights, and energy development in Northeast
British Columbia, Canada, 2016.
318.A. Anongos, D. Berezhkov, et al., Pitfalls and pipelines: Indigenous peoples and extractive industries, 2012.
319.J. Burger, Indigenous peoples, extractive industries and human rights, 2014.
320.European Parliament, Committee on Foreign Affairs, Report on Violation of the Rights of Indigenous Peoples in
the World, Including Land Grabbing, 2018.
321.G. Gibson, K. Yung, et al. with Lake Babine Nation and Nak’azdii Whut’en, Indigenous communities and industrial
camps: Promoting healthy communities in settings of industrial change, 2017.
322.Global Witness, Defenders of the earth: Global killings of land and environmental defenders in 2016, 2017.
323.N. Hill, A. Alook, and I. Hussey, How gender and race shape experiences of work in Alberta’s oil industry,
parklandinstitute.ca/how_gender_and_race_shape_experiences_of_work_in_albertas_oil_industry, accessed
on 31 May 2020.
324.Indigenous Environmental Network, Native Leaders Bring Attention to Impact of Fossil Fuel Industry on Missing
and Murdered Indigenous Women and Girls, popularresistance.org/native-leaders-bring-attention-to-impact-of-
fossil-fuel-industry-on-missing-and-murdered-indigenous-women-and-girls, accessed on 27 May 2021.
325.International Finance Corporation (IFC), Guidance Note 7: Indigenous Peoples, 2012.
326.International Finance Corporation (IFC), Performance Standard 7: Indigenous Peoples, 2012.
327.International Finance Corporation (IFC), Projects and People: A Handbook for Addressing Project Induced In-
Migration, 2009.
328.International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association (IPIECA), Free, prior and informed
consent (FPIC) toolbox, 2018.
329.International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association (IPIECA), Indigenous Peoples and the
oil and gas industry: context, issues and emerging good practice, 2012.
330.United Nations Global Compact, A Business Reference Guide: United Nations Declaration on the Rights of
Indigenous Peoples, 2013.
331.B. McIvor, First Peoples Law, Essays in Canadian Law and Decolonization, 2018.
332.T. Perreault, Natural Gas, Indigenous Mobilization and the Bolivian State, 2008.
333.United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs (UN DESA), Report of the international expert group
meeting on extractive industries, Indigenous Peoples’ rights and corporate social responsibility, 2009.
334.United Nations Economic and Social Council (UN ECOSOC), Combating violence against indigenous women
and girls: article 22 of the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples: Report of the
international expert group meeting, 2012.
335.United Nations Human Rights Council (HRC), Report of the Special Rapporteur on the rights of indigenous
peoples, James Anaya Extractive industries and indigenous peoples, 2013.
Resources:
336.Equator Principles, EP4, 2020.
337.International Finance Corporation (IFC), Guidance Note 7: Indigenous Peoples, 2012.
338.International Finance Corporation (IFC), Performance Standard 7: Indigenous Peoples, 2012.
Topic 11.18 Conflict and security
Authoritative instruments:
89 GRI 11: Oil and Gas Sector 2021
339.European Union and United Nations Interagency Framework Team for Preventive Action, Toolkit and Guidance
for Preventing and Managing Land and Natural Resources Conflict: Extractive Industries and Conflict, 2012.
340.Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCR), Basic Principles on the Use of Force and Firearms
by Law Enforcement Officials, 1990.
341.Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCR), Code of Conduct for Law Enforcement Officials,
1979.
342.Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights, Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights, 2000.
Additional references:
343.Institute for Human Rights and Business (IHRB), From Red to Green Flags: The Corporate Responsibility to
Respect Human Rights in High-Risk Countries, 2011.
344.Geneva Centre for the Democratic Control of Armed Forces (DCAF), International Committee of the Red Cross
(ICRC), Addressing Security and Human Rights Challenges in Complex Environments: Toolkit, 3rd ed., 2015.
345.Global Compact Network Canada, Auditing Implementation of Voluntary Principles on Security and Human
Rights, 2016.
346.International Alert, Human rights due diligence in conflict-affected settings: Guidance for extractive industries,
2018.
347.International Association of Oil & Gas Producers (IOGP), Conducting security risk assessments (SRA) in dynamic
threat environments, 2016.
348.International Association of Oil & Gas Producers (IOGP), Integrating security in major projects – principles and
guidelines, 2014.
349.International Association of Oil & Gas Producers (IOGP), Security management system – Processes and
concepts in security management, 2014.
350.International Council on Mining & Metals (ICMM), International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC), International
Finance Corporation (IFC), and International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association
(IPIECA), Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights: Implementation Guidance Tools, 2011.
351.International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association (IPIECA), Guide to Operating in Areas
of Conflict, 2008.
352.K. Neu and D. Avant, Overview of the relationship between PMSCs and extractive industry companies from the
Private Security Events Database, 2019.
353.Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR), Call for submissions: the relationship between
private military and security companies and extractive industry companies from a human rights perspective in law
and practice, 2019.
354.Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCR), Private military and security companies in extractive
industries – impact on human rights, 2017.
355.United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), From Conflict to Peacebuilding: The Role of Natural
Resources and the Environment, 2009.
356.United Nations Environment Programme Financial Initiative (UNEP FI), Human Rights Guidance Tool for the
Financial Sector, Oil and Gas, unepfi.org/humanrightstoolkit/oil.php, accessed on 31 May 2020.
Resources:
357.International Alert, Human rights due diligence in conflict-affected settings: Guidance for extractive industries,
2018.
358.International Council on Mining & Metals (ICMM), International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC), International
Finance Corporation (IFC), and International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association
(IPIECA), Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights: Implementation Guidance Tools, 2011.
Topic 11.19 Anti-competitive behavior
Additional references:
359.European Commission, Case AT.39816: Upstream Gas Supplies in Central and Eastern Europe, 2018.
360.International Trade Center (ITC), Combating Anti-Competitive Practices: A Guide for Developing Economy
Exporters, 2012.
361.Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), Cartels and anti-competitive agreements,
oecd.org/competition/cartels/, accessed on 31 May 2020.
90 GRI 11: Oil and Gas Sector 2021
362.Vinsion & Elkins, 2018 Energy and Chemicals Antitrust Report, 2019.
Topic 11.20 Anti-corruption
Authoritative instruments:
363.Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), Convention on Combating Bribery of
Foreign Public Officials in International Business Transactions and Related Documents, 1997.
Additional references:
364.Ernst & Young (EY), Managing bribery and corruption risks in the oil and gas industry, 2014.
365.Extractives Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI), Disclosing beneficial ownership: The key to fighting
corruption, 2017.
366.Extractives Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI), The EITI Standard, 2019.
367.Financial Action Task Force (FATF), FATF guidance: Politically exposed persons (recommendations 12 and 22),
2013.
368.Global Witness, Shell knew: Emails show senior executives at UK’s biggest company knew it was party to a vast
bribery scheme, globalwitness.org/en/campaigns/oil-gas-and-mining/shell-knew/, accessed on 31 May 2020.
369.International Monetary Fund (IMF), Fiscal Transparency Initiative: Integration of Natural Resource Management
Issues, 2019.
370.M. Martini and Transparency International, Local content policies and corruption in the oil and gas industry, 2014.
371.Natural Resource Governance Institute (NRGI), Beneath the Surface: The Case for Oversight of the Extractive
Industry Suppliers, 2020.
372.Natural Resource Governance Institute (NRGI), Twelve Red Flags: Corruption Risks in the Award of Extractive
Sector Licenses and Contracts, 2017.
373.Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), Corruption in the Extractive Value Chain:
Typology of risks, Mitigation Measures and Incentives, 2016.
374.Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), OECD Foreign Bribery Report: An Analysis
of the Crime of Bribery of Foreign Public Officials, 2014.
375.Transparency International, Corruption Perceptions Index 2018, 2018.
376.A. Sayne, A. Gillies, and A. Watkins, Twelve Red Flags: Corruption Risks in the Award of Extractive Sector
Licenses and Contracts, 2017.
377.E. Westenberg and A. Sayne, Beneficial Ownership Screening: Practical Measures to Reduce Corruption Risks in
Extractives Licensing, 2018.
378.A. Williams and K. Dupuy, Deciding over nature: Corruption and environmental impact assessments, 2016.
Resources:
379.Extractives Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI), The EITI Standard, 2019.
Topic 11.21 Payments to governments
Authoritative instruments:
380.European Parliament, Directive 2013/34/EU of the European Parliament and the Council of 26 June 2013 on the
annual financial statements, consolidated financial statements and related reports of certain types of
undertakings, 2013.
381.Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), Inclusive Framework on Base Erosion and
Profit Shifting, Action 13 Country-by-Country Reporting, oecd.org/tax/beps/beps-actions/action13, accessed on 1
June 2020.
Additional references:
382.Extractives Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI), Nigeria EITI: Making transparency count, uncovering billions,
2012.
383.Extractives Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI), Project-level reporting in the extractive industries, 2018.
384.Extractives Industries Transparency Initiative EITI), Guidance note 26 – Reporting on first trades in oil, 2017.
385.Extractives Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI), Reporting Guidelines for companies buying oil, gas and
91 GRI 11: Oil and Gas Sector 2021
minerals from governments, 2020.
386.Extractives Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI), Upstream Oil, Gas, and Mining State-Owned Enterprises,
Governance Challenges and the Role of International Reporting Standards in Improving Performance, 2018.
387.Extractives Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI), The EITI Standard, 2019.
388.Global Witness, Shell knew: Emails show senior executives at UK’s biggest company knew it was party to a vast
bribery scheme, globalwitness.org/en/campaigns/oil-gas-and-mining/shell-knew/, accessed on 31 May 2020.
389.International Monetary Fund (IMF), Fiscal Transparency Code (FTC), Pillar IV on natural resource revenue
management, 2019.
390.P. Poretti, Transparency in the First Trade, 2019.
391.PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC), Financial reporting in the oil and gas industry: International Financial Reporting
Standards, 2017.
392.A. Sayne, A. Gillies, and A. Watkins, Twelve Red Flags: Corruption Risks in the Award of Extractive Sector
Licenses and Contracts, 2017.
393.Tax Justice and Extractive Transparency: Two faces of the same coin, pwyp.org/pwyp-resources/tax-justice-
extractive-transparency-two-faces-coin/, accessed on 19 February 2021.
394.Transparency International, Under the Surface: Looking into Payments by Oil, Gas and Mining Companies to
Governments, 2018.
Resources:
395.Extractives Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI), Reporting Guidelines for companies buying oil, gas and
minerals from governments, 2020.
396.Extractives Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI), The EITI Standard, 2019.
Topic 11.22 Public policy
Additional references:
397.Australasian Centre for Corporate Responsibility (ACCR), Politics – BHP, 2017.
398.D. Coady, I. Parry, et al., Global Fossil Fuel Subsidies Remain Large: An Update Based on Country-Level
Estimates, 2019.
399.N. Graham, S. Daub, and B. Carroll, Mapping Political Influence: Political donations and lobbying by the fossil
fuel industry in BC, 2017.
400.S. Hayer, Fossil Fuel Subsidies, 2017.
401.InfluenceMap, Big Oil’s Real Agenda on Climate Change, influencemap.org/report/How-Big-Oil-Continues-to-
Oppose-the-Paris-Agreement-38212275958aa21196dae3b76220bddc, accessed on 31 May 2020.
402.InfluenceMap, Climate Lobbying: How Companies Really Impact Progress on Climate, 2018,
influencemap.org/climate-lobbying, accessed on 31 May 2020.
403.InfluenceMap, Trade association and climate: Shareholders make themselves heard, May 2018,
influencemap.org/report/Trade-associations-and-climate-shareholders-make-themselves-heard-
cf9db75c0a4e25555fafb0d84a152c23, accessed on 31 May 2020.
404.D. Koplow, C. Lin, et al., Mapping the Characteristics of Producer Subsidies: A review of pilot country studies,
2010.
405.J. Levin, We stopped the oil and gas industry from gutting Canada’s environmental laws!,
environmentaldefence.ca/2019/06/27/we-stopped-the-oil-gas-industry-from-gutting-canadas-environmental-
laws/, accessed on 2 June 2021.
406.Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), Anti-corruption & Integrity Hub, Lobbying,
oecd.org/corruption-integrity/explore/topics/lobbying.html, accessed on 2 June 2021.
407.J. B. Skjærseth and T. Skodvin, Climate change and the oil industry: Common problem, varying strategies, 2003.
PO Box 10039
1001 EA Amsterdam
The Netherlands
www.globalreporting.org
