GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016
201
EFFECTIVE DATE: 1 JULY 2018
TOPIC STANDARD
GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016
Topic Standard
Effective Date
This Standard is effective for reports or other materials published on or after 1 July 2018
Responsibility
This Standard is issued by the Global Sustainability Standards Board (GSSB). Any feedback on the GRI Standards
can be submitted to gssbsecretariat@globalreporting.org for the consideration of the GSSB.
Due Process
This Standard was developed in the public interest and in accordance with the requirements of the GSSB Due
Process Protocol. It has been developed using multi-stakeholder expertise, and with regard to authoritative
intergovernmental instruments and widely held expectations of organizations relating to social, environmental, and
economic responsibilities.
Legal Liability
This document, designed to promote sustainability reporting, has been developed by the Global Sustainability
Standards Board (GSSB) through a unique multi-stakeholder consultative process involving representatives from
organizations and report information users from around the world. While the GRI Supervisory Board, Management
Board, and GSSB encourage the use of the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI Standards) and related
Interpretations by all organizations, the preparation and publication of reports based fully or partially on the GRI
Standards and related Interpretations are the full responsibility of those producing them. Neither the GRI Supervisory
Board, Management Board, GSSB, nor Stichting Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) can assume responsibility for any
consequences or damages resulting directly or indirectly from the use of the GRI Standards and related
Interpretations in the preparation of reports, or the use of reports based on the GRI Standards and related
Interpretations.
Copyright and trademark notice
This document is copyright-protected by Stichting Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). The reproduction and distribution
of this document for information and/or use in preparing a sustainability report is permitted without prior permission
from GRI. However, neither this document nor any extract from it may be reproduced, stored, translated, or transferred
in any form or by any means (electronic, mechanical, photocopied, recorded, or otherwise) for any other purpose
without prior written permission from GRI.
Global Reporting Initiative, GRI and logo, GSSB and logo, and GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI
Standards) and logo are trademarks of Stichting Global Reporting Initiative.
© 2025 GRI. All rights reserved.
ISBN 978-90-8866-098-6
3 GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016
Content
Introduction 4
1. Topic management disclosures 7
2. Topic disclosures 8
Disclosure 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 8
Disclosure 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to
11
climate change
Disclosure 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans 13
Disclosure 201-4 Financial assistance received from government 14
Glossary 15
Bibliography 18
4 GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016
Introduction
GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016 contains disclosures for organizations to report information about their
economic performance-related impacts, and how they manage these impacts.
The Standard is structured as follows:
• Section 1 contains a requirement, which provides information about how the organization manages its economic
performance-related impacts.
• Section 2 contains four disclosures, which provide information about the organization’s economic performance-
related impacts.
• The Glossary contains defined terms with a specific meaning when used in the GRI Standards. The terms are
underlined in the text of the GRI Standards and linked to the definitions.
• The Bibliography lists authoritative intergovernmental instruments and additional references used in developing
this Standard.
The rest of the Introduction section provides a background on the topic, an overview of the system of GRI Standards
and further information on using this Standard.
Background on the topic
This Standard addresses the topic of economic performance. This includes the economic value generated and
distributed (EVG&D) by an organization, its defined benefit plan obligations, the financial assistance it receives from
any government, and the financial implications of climate change.
These concepts are covered in key instruments of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development:
see the Bibliography.
System of GRI Standards
This Standard is part of the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI Standards). The GRI Standards enable an
organization to report information about its most significant impacts on the economy, environment, and people,
including impacts on their human rights, and how it manages these impacts.
The GRI Standards are structured as a system of interrelated standards that are organized into three series: GRI
Universal Standards, GRI Sector Standards, and GRI Topic Standards (see Figure 1 in this Standard).
Universal Standards: GRI 1, GRI 2 and GRI 3
GRI 1: Foundation 2021 specifies the requirements that the organization must comply with to report in accordance
with the GRI Standards. The organization begins using the GRI Standards by consulting GRI 1.
GRI 2: General Disclosures 2021 contains disclosures that the organization uses to provide information about its
reporting practices and other organizational details, such as its activities, governance, and policies.
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 provides guidance on how to determine material topics. It also contains disclosures that
the organization uses to report information about its process of determining material topics, its list of material topics,
and how it manages each topic.
Sector Standards
The Sector Standards provide information for organizations about their likely material topics. The organization uses
the Sector Standards that apply to its sectors when determining its material topics and when determining what to
report for each material topic.
Topic Standards
The Topic Standards contain disclosures that the organization uses to report information about its impacts in relation
to particular topics. The organization uses the Topic Standards according to the list of material topics it has
determined using GRI 3.
5 GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016
Figure 1. GRI Standards: Universal, Sector and Topic Standards
GRI Standards
Universal Standards Sector Standards Topic Standards
Requirements and
principles for using the
GRI Standards
Disclosures about the
reporting organization
Disclosures and
guidance about the
organization's material
topics
Apply all three Universal Use the Sector Standards that Select Topic Standards to report
Standards to your reporting apply to your sectors specific information on your
material topics
Using this Standard
This Standard can be used by any organization – regardless of size, type, sector, geographic location, or reporting
experience – to report information about its economic performance-related impacts.
An organization reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards is required to report the following disclosures if it has
determined economic performance to be a material topic:
• Disclosure 3-3 in GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 (see clause 1.1 in this Standard);
• Any disclosures from this Topic Standard that are relevant to the organization’s economic performance-related
impacts (Disclosure 201-1 through Disclosure 201-4).
See Requirements 4 and 5 in GRI 1: Foundation 2021.
Reasons for omission are permitted for these disclosures.
If the organization cannot comply with a disclosure or with a requirement in a disclosure (e.g., because the required
information is confidential or subject to legal prohibitions), the organization is required to specify the disclosure or the
requirement it cannot comply with, and provide a reason for omission together with an explanation in the GRI content
index. See Requirement 6 in GRI 1: Foundation 2021 for more information on reasons for omission.
If the organization cannot report the required information about an item specified in a disclosure because the item
(e.g., committee, policy, practice, process) does not exist, it can comply with the requirement by reporting this to be the
case. The organization can explain the reasons for not having this item, or describe any plans to develop it. The
disclosure does not require the organization to implement the item (e.g., developing a policy), but to report that the
item does not exist.
If the organization intends to publish a standalone sustainability report, it does not need to repeat information that it
has already reported publicly elsewhere, such as on web pages or in its annual report. In such a case, the
organization can report a required disclosure by providing a reference in the GRI content index as to where this
information can be found (e.g., by providing a link to the web page or citing the page in the annual report where the
information has been published).
6 GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016
Requirements, guidance and defined terms
The following apply throughout this Standard:
Requirements are presented in bold font and indicated by the word 'shall'. An organization must comply with
requirements to report in accordance with the GRI Standards.
Requirements may be accompanied by guidance.
Guidance includes background information, explanations, and examples to help the organization better understand
the requirements. The organization is not required to comply with guidance.
The Standards may also include recommendations. These are cases where a particular course of action is
encouraged but not required.
The word ‘should’ indicates a recommendation, and the word ‘can’ indicates a possibility or option.
Defined terms are underlined in the text of the GRI Standards and linked to their definitions in the Glossary. The
organization is required to apply the definitions in the Glossary.
7 GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016
1. Topic management disclosures
An organization reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards is required to report how it manages each of its
material topics.
An organization that has determined economic performance to be a material topic is required to report how it
manages the topic using Disclosure 3-3 in GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 (see clause 1.1 in this section).
This section is therefore designed to supplement – and not replace – Disclosure 3-3 in GRI 3.
8 GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016
2. Topic disclosures
An organization is expected to compile information for economic disclosures using figures from its audited financial
statements or from its internally-audited management accounts, whenever possible. Data can be compiled using, for
example:
• the relevant International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), published by the International Accounting
Standards Board (IASB), and the Interpretations developed by the IFRS Interpretations Committee (specific IFRS
are referenced for some of the disclosures);
• the International Public Sector Accounting Standards (IPSAS) issued by the International Federation of
Accountants (IFAC);
• national or regional standards recognized internationally for the purpose of financial reporting.
Disclosure 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
REQUIREMENTS
a. Direct economic value generated and distributed (EVG&D) on an accruals basis,
including the basic components for the organization’s global operations as listed below.
If data are presented on a cash basis, report the justification for this decision in addition
to reporting the following basic components:
i. Direct economic value generated: revenues;
ii. Economic value distributed: operating costs, employee wages and benefits,
payments to providers of capital, payments to government by country, and
community investments;
iii. Economic value retained: ‘direct economic value generated’ less ‘economic value
distributed’.
b. Where significant, report EVG&D separately at country, regional, or market levels, and
the criteria used for defining significance.
Compilation requirements
2.1 When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 201-1, the reporting
organization shall, if applicable, compile the EVG&D from data in the organization’s
audited financial or profit and loss (P&L) statement, or its internally audited
management accounts.
Background
GUIDANCE
Information on the creation and distribution of economic value provides a basic indication of how
an organization has created wealth for stakeholders. Several components of the economic value
generated and distributed (EVG&D) also provide an economic profile of an organization, which
can be useful for normalizing other performance figures.
If presented in country-level detail, EVG&D can provide a useful picture of the direct monetary
value added to local economies.
Guidance for Disclosure 201-1
Revenues
An organization can calculate revenues as net sales plus revenues from financial investments
and sales of assets.
Net sales can be calculated as gross sales from products and services minus returns,
discounts, and allowances.
Revenues from financial investments can include cash received as:
• interest on financial loans;
• dividends from shareholdings;
• royalties;
• direct income generated from assets, such as property rental.
9 GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016
Revenues from sale of assets can include:
• physical assets, such as property, infrastructure, and equipment;
• intangibles, such as intellectual property rights, designs, and brand names.
Operating costs
An organization can calculate operating costs as cash payments made outside the organization
for materials, product components, facilities, and services purchased.
Services purchased can include payments to self-employed persons, temporary placement
agencies and other organizations providing services. Costs related to workers who are not
employees working in an operational role are included as part of services purchased, rather
than under employee wages and benefits.
Operating costs can include:
• property rental;
• license fees;
• facilitation payments (since these have a clear commercial objective);
• royalties;
• payments for contract workers;
• training costs, if outside trainers are used;
• personal protective clothing.
The use of facilitation payments is also addressed in GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016.
Employee wages and benefits
An organization can calculate employee wages and benefits as total payroll (including employee
salaries and amounts paid to government institutions on behalf of employees) plus total
benefits (excluding training, costs of protective equipment or other cost items directly related to
the employee’s job function).
Amounts paid to government institutions on behalf of employees can include employee taxes,
levies, and unemployment funds.
Total benefits can include:
• regular contributions, such as to pensions, insurance, company vehicles, and private health;
• other employee support, such as housing, interest-free loans, public transport assistance,
educational grants, and redundancy payments.
Payments to providers of capital
An organization can calculate payments to providers of capital as dividends to all shareholders,
plus interest payments made to providers of loans.
Interest payments made to providers of loans can include:
• interest on all forms of debt and borrowings (not only long-term debt);
• arrears of dividends due to preferred shareholders.
Payments to government
An organization can calculate payments to governments as all of the organization’s taxes plus
related penalties paid at the international, national, and local levels. Organization taxes can
include corporate, income, and property.
Payments to government exclude deferred taxes, because they may not be paid.
If operating in more than one country, the organization can report taxes paid by country, including
the definition of segmentation used.
Community investments
Total community investments refers to actual expenditures in the reporting period, not
commitments. An organization can calculate community investments as voluntary donations
plus investment of funds in the broader community where the target beneficiaries are external to
the organization. Voluntary donations and investment of funds in the broader community where
the target beneficiaries are external to the organization can include:
• contributions to charities, NGOs and research institutes (unrelated to the organization’s
10 GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016
commercial research and development);
• funds to support community infrastructure, such as recreational facilities;
• direct costs of social programs, including arts and educational events.
If reporting infrastructure investments, an organization can include costs of goods and labor, in
addition to capital costs, as well as operating costs for support of ongoing facilities or programs.
An example of support for ongoing facilities or programs can include the organization funding
the daily operations of a public facility.
Community investments exclude legal and commercial activities or where the purpose of the
investment is exclusively commercial (donations to political parties can be included, but are also
addressed separately in more detail in GRI 415: Public Policy 2016).
Community investments also exclude any infrastructure investment that is driven primarily by
core business needs, or to facilitate the business operations of an organization. Infrastructure
investments driven primarily by core business needs can include, for example, building a road
to a mine or a factory. The calculation of investment can include infrastructure built outside the
main business activities of the organization, such as a school or hospital for workers and their
families.
See references [5], [6], [7] and [9] in the Bibliography.
11 GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016
Disclosure 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and
opportunities due to climate change
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
REQUIREMENTS
a. Risks and opportunities posed by climate change that have the potential to generate
substantive changes in operations, revenue, or expenditure, including:
i. a description of the risk or opportunity and its classification as either physical,
regulatory, or other;
ii. a description of the impact associated with the risk or opportunity;
iii. the financial implications of the risk or opportunity before action is taken;
iv. the methods used to manage the risk or opportunity;
v. the costs of actions taken to manage the risk or opportunity.
Compilation requirements
2.2 When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 201-2, if the reporting
organization does not have a system in place to calculate the financial implications or
costs, or to make revenue projections, it shall report its plans and timeline to develop
the necessary systems.
2.3 When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 201-2, the reporting organization
RECOMMENDATIONS
should report the following additional characteristics for the identified risks and
opportunities:
2.3.1 A description of the risk or opportunity driver, such as a particular piece of
legislation, or a physical driver, such as water scarcity;
2.3.2 The projected time frame in which the risk or opportunity is expected to have
substantive financial implications;
2.3.3 Direct and indirect impacts (whether the impact directly affects the organization, or
indirectly affects the organization via its supply chain or entities downstream from
it);
2.3.4 The potential impacts generally, including increased or decreased:
2.3.4.1capital and operational costs;
2.3.4.2demand for products and services;
2.3.4.3capital availability and investment opportunities;
2.3.5 Likelihood (the probability of the impact on the organization);
2.3.6 Magnitude of impact (if occurring, the extent to which the impact affects the
organization financially).
Guidance for Disclosure 201-2
GUIDANCE
Risk and opportunities due to climate change can be classified as:
• physical
• regulatory
• other
Physical risks and opportunities can include:
• the impact of more frequent and intense storms;
• changes in sea level, ambient temperature, and water availability;
• impacts on workers – such as health effects, including heat-related illness or disease, and
the need to relocate operations.
Other risks and opportunities can include the availability of new technologies, products, or
services to address challenges related to climate change, as well as changes in customer
behavior.
Methods used to manage the risk or opportunity can include:
• carbon capture and storage;
• fuel switching;
• use of renewable and lower carbon footprint energy;
12 GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016
• improving energy efficiency;
• flaring, venting, and fugitive emission reduction;
• renewable energy certificates;
• use of carbon offsets.
Background
Climate change presents risks and opportunities to organizations, their investors, and their
other stakeholders.
As governments move to regulate activities that contribute to climate change, organizations that
are directly or indirectly responsible for emissions face regulatory risks and opportunities. Risks
can include increased costs or other factors impacting competitiveness. However, limits on
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions can also create opportunities for organizations as new
technologies and markets are created. This is especially the case for organizations that can use
or produce energy and energy-efficient products more effectively.
See references [2], [3] and [4] in the Bibliography.
13 GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016
Disclosure 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other
retirement plans
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
REQUIREMENTS
a. If the plan’s liabilities are met by the organization’s general resources, the estimated
value of those liabilities.
b. If a separate fund exists to pay the plan’s pension liabilities:
i. the extent to which the scheme’s liabilities are estimated to be covered by the
assets that have been set aside to meet them;
ii. the basis on which that estimate has been arrived at;
iii. when that estimate was made.
c. If a fund set up to pay the plan’s pension liabilities is not fully covered, explain the
strategy, if any, adopted by the employer to work towards full coverage, and the
timescale, if any, by which the employer hopes to achieve full coverage.
d. Percentage of salary contributed by employee or employer.
e. Level of participation in retirement plans, such as participation in mandatory or
voluntary schemes, regional, or country-based schemes, or those with financial impact.
2.4 When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 201-3, the reporting organization
RECOMMENDATIONS
should:
2.4.1 calculate the information in accordance with the regulations and methods for
relevant jurisdictions, and report aggregated totals;
2.4.2 use the same consolidation techniques as those applied in preparing the
financial accounts of the organization.
Guidance for Disclosure 201-3
GUIDANCE
The structure of retirement plans offered to employees can be based on:
• defined benefit plans;
• defined contribution plans;
• other types of retirement benefits.
Different jurisdictions, such as countries, have varying interpretations and guidance regarding
calculations used to determine plan coverage.
Note that benefit pension plans are part of the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB)
IAS 19 Employee Benefits, however IAS 19 covers additional topics.
See reference [7] in the Bibliography.
Background
When an organization provides a retirement plan for its employees, these benefits can become
a commitment that members of the schemes plan on for their long-term economic well-being.
Defined benefit plans have potential implications for employers in terms of the obligations that
need to be met. Other types of plans, such as defined contribution plans, do not guarantee
access to a retirement plan or the quality of the benefits. Thus, the type of plan chosen has
implications for both employees and employers. Conversely, a properly funded pension plan
can help to attract and maintain employees and support long-term financial and strategic
planning on the part of the employer.
14 GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016
Disclosure 201-4 Financial assistance received from government
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
REQUIREMENTS
a. Total monetary value of financial assistance received by the organization from any
government during the reporting period, including:
i. tax relief and tax credits;
ii. subsidies;
iii. investment grants, research and development grants, and other relevant types of
grant;
iv. awards;
v. royalty holidays;
vi. financial assistance from Export Credit Agencies (ECAs);
vii. financial incentives;
viii. other financial benefits received or receivable from any government for any
operation.
b. The information in 201-4-a by country.
c. Whether, and the extent to which, any government is present in the shareholding
structure.
Compilation requirements
2.5 When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 201-4, the reporting
organization shall identify the monetary value of financial assistance received from
government through consistent application of generally accepted accounting
principles.
Background
GUIDANCE
This disclosure provides a measure of governments’ contributions to an organization.
The significant financial assistance received from a government, in comparison with taxes paid,
can be useful for developing a balanced picture of the transactions between the organization
and government.
See reference [8] in the Bibliography.
15 GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016
Glossary
This glossary provides definitions for terms used in this Standard. The organization is required to apply these
definitions when using the GRI Standards.
The definitions included in this glossary may contain terms that are further defined in the complete GRI Standards
Glossary. All defined terms are underlined. If a term is not defined in this glossary or in the complete GRI Standards
Glossary, definitions that are commonly used and understood apply.
business partner
B
entity with which the organization has some form of direct and formal engagement for the
purpose of meeting its business objectives
Source: Shift and Mazars LLP, UN Guiding Principles Reporting Framework, 2015; modified
Examples: affiliates, business-to-business customers, clients, first-tier suppliers, franchisees,
joint venture partners, investee companies in which the organization has a
shareholding position
Note: Business partners do not include subsidiaries and affiliates that the organization
controls.
business relationships
relationships that the organization has with business partners, with entities in its value chain
including those beyond the first tier, and with any other entities directly linked to its operations,
products, or services
Source: United Nations (UN), Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights:
Implementing the United Nations “Protect, Respect and Remedy” Framework, 2011;
modified
Note: Examples of other entities directly linked to the organization’s operations, products,
or services are a non-governmental organization with which the organization
delivers support to a local community or state security forces that protect the
organization’s facilities.
defined benefit plan
D
post-employment benefit plan other than a defined contribution plan
defined contribution plan
post-employment benefit plan under which an entity pays fixed contributions into a separate
entity (a fund) and will have no legal or constructive obligation to pay further contributions if the
fund does not hold sufficient assets to pay all employee benefits relating to employee service in
the current and prior periods
employee
E
individual who is in an employment relationship with the organization according to national law
or practice
financial assistance
F
direct or indirect financial benefits that do not represent a transaction of goods and services, but
which are an incentive or compensation for actions taken, the cost of an asset, or expenses
incurred
Note: The provider of financial assistance does not expect a direct financial return from
the assistance offered.
full coverage
plan assets that meet or exceed plan obligations
greenhouse gas (GHG) *
G
gas that contributes to the greenhouse effect by absorbing infrared radiation
* Please note this term will be updated following the effective date of GRI 102: Climate Change
16 GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016
2025 and GRI 103: Energy 2025, as of 1 January 2027. Please see GRI 102/103 for the updated
term.
human rights
H
rights inherent to all human beings, which include, at a minimum, the rights set out in the United
Nations (UN) International Bill of Human Rights and the principles concerning fundamental
rights set out in the International Labour Organization (ILO) Declaration on Fundamental
Principles and Rights at Work
Source: United Nations (UN), Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights:
Implementing the United Nations “Protect, Respect and Remedy” Framework, 2011;
modified
Note: See Guidance to 2-23-b-i in GRI 2: General Disclosures 2021 for more information
on ‘human rights’.
impact
I
effect the organization has or could have on the economy, environment, and people, including on
their human rights, which in turn can indicate its contribution (negative or positive) to sustainable
development
Note 1: Impacts can be actual or potential, negative or positive, short-term or long-term,
intended or unintended, and reversible or irreversible.
Note 2: See section 2.1 in GRI 1: Foundation 2021 for more information on ‘impact’.
material topics
M
topics that represent the organization’s most significant impacts on the economy, environment,
and people, including impacts on their human rights
Note: See section 2.2 in GRI 1: Foundation 2021 and section 1 in GRI 3: Material Topics
2021 for more information on ‘material topics’.
supplier
S
entity upstream from the organization (i.e., in the organization’s supply chain), which provides a
product or service that is used in the development of the organization’s own products or services
Examples: brokers, consultants, contractors, distributors, franchisees, home workers,
independent contractors, licensees, manufacturers, primary producers, sub-
contractors, wholesalers
Note: A supplier can have a direct business relationship with the organization (often
referred to as a first-tier supplier) or an indirect business relationship.
supply chain
range of activities carried out by entities upstream from the organization, which provide products
or services that are used in the development of the organization’s own products or services
sustainable development / sustainability
development that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future
generations to meet their own needs
Source: World Commission on Environment and Development, Our Common Future, 1987
Note: The terms ‘sustainability’ and ‘sustainable development’ are used interchangeably
in the GRI Standards.
value chain
V
range of activities carried out by the organization, and by entities upstream and downstream
from the organization, to bring the organization’s products or services from their conception to
their end use
17 GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016
Note 1: Entities upstream from the organization (e.g., suppliers) provide products or
services that are used in the development of the organization’s own products or
services. Entities downstream from the organization (e.g., distributors, customers)
receive products or services from the organization.
Note 2: The value chain includes the supply chain.
worker
W
person that performs work for the organization
Examples: employees, agency workers, apprentices, contractors, home workers, interns, self-
employed persons, sub-contractors, volunteers, and persons working for
organizations other than the reporting organization, such as for suppliers
Note: In the GRI Standards, in some cases, it is specified whether a particular subset of
workers is required to be used.
Bibliography
18 GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016
Bibliography
This section lists authoritative intergovernmental instruments and additional references used in developing this
Standard.
Authoritative instruments:
1. Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), OECD Guidelines for Multinational
Enterprises, 2011.
Additional references:
2. Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), Guidance for companies responding to the Investor CDP Information Request,
updated annually.
3. Climate Disclosure Standards Board (CDSB), Climate Change Reporting Framework – Edition 1.1, October
2012.
4. Climate Disclosure Standards Board (CDSB), Climate Change Reporting Framework Boundary Update, June
2012.
5. International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), IAS 12 Income Taxes, 2001.
6. International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), IAS 18 Revenues, 2001.
7. International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), IAS 19 Employee Benefits, 2001.
8. International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), IAS 20 Accounting for Government Grants and Disclosure of
Government Assistance, 2001.
9. International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), IFRS 8 Operating Segments, 2006.
PO Box 10039
1001 EA Amsterdam
The Netherlands
www.globalreporting.org
