GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity
2016
405
EFFECTIVE DATE: 1 JULY 2018
TOPIC STANDARD
GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016
Topic Standard
Effective Date
This Standard is effective for reports or other materials published on or after 1 July 2018
Responsibility
This Standard is issued by the Global Sustainability Standards Board (GSSB). Any feedback on the GRI Standards
can be submitted to gssbsecretariat@globalreporting.org for the consideration of the GSSB.
Due Process
This Standard was developed in the public interest and in accordance with the requirements of the GSSB Due
Process Protocol. It has been developed using multi-stakeholder expertise, and with regard to authoritative
intergovernmental instruments and widely held expectations of organizations relating to social, environmental, and
economic responsibilities.
Legal Liability
This document, designed to promote sustainability reporting, has been developed by the Global Sustainability
Standards Board (GSSB) through a unique multi-stakeholder consultative process involving representatives from
organizations and report information users from around the world. While the GRI Supervisory Board, Management
Board, and GSSB encourage the use of the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI Standards) and related
Interpretations by all organizations, the preparation and publication of reports based fully or partially on the GRI
Standards and related Interpretations are the full responsibility of those producing them. Neither the GRI Supervisory
Board, Management Board, GSSB, nor Stichting Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) can assume responsibility for any
consequences or damages resulting directly or indirectly from the use of the GRI Standards and related
Interpretations in the preparation of reports, or the use of reports based on the GRI Standards and related
Interpretations.
Copyright and trademark notice
This document is copyright-protected by Stichting Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). The reproduction and distribution
of this document for information and/or use in preparing a sustainability report is permitted without prior permission
from GRI. However, neither this document nor any extract from it may be reproduced, stored, translated, or transferred
in any form or by any means (electronic, mechanical, photocopied, recorded, or otherwise) for any other purpose
without prior written permission from GRI.
Global Reporting Initiative, GRI and logo, GSSB and logo, and GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI
Standards) and logo are trademarks of Stichting Global Reporting Initiative.
© 2025 GRI. All rights reserved.
ISBN 978-90-8866-116-7
3 GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016
Content
Introduction 4
1. Topic management disclosures 7
2. Topic disclosures 8
Disclosure 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 8
Disclosure 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men 9
Glossary 10
Bibliography 14
4 GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016
Introduction
GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016 contains disclosures for organizations to report information about their
impacts related to diversity and equal opportunity at work, and how they manage these impacts.
The Standard is structured as follows:
• Section 1 contains a requirement, which provides information about how the organization manages its impacts
related to diversity and equal opportunity at work.
• Section 2 contains two disclosures, which provide information about the organization’s impacts related to diversity
and equal opportunity at work.
• The Glossary contains defined terms with a specific meaning when used in the GRI Standards. The terms are
underlined in the text of the GRI Standards and linked to the definitions.
• The Bibliography lists authoritative intergovernmental instruments used in developing this Standard.
The rest of the Introduction section provides a background on the topic, an overview of the system of GRI Standards
and further information on using this Standard.
Background on the topic
This Standard addresses the topic of an organization’s approach to diversity and equal opportunity at work.
When an organization actively promotes diversity and equality at work, it can generate significant benefits for both the
organization and workers. For example, the organization can gain access to a larger and more diverse set of potential
workers. These benefits also flow through to society in general, as greater equality promotes social stability and
supports further economic development.
These concepts are covered in key instruments of the International Labour Organization, the Organisation for
Economic Co-operation and Development, and the United Nations: see the Bibliography.
System of GRI Standards
This Standard is part of the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI Standards). The GRI Standards enable an
organization to report information about its most significant impacts on the economy, environment, and people,
including impacts on their human rights, and how it manages these impacts.
The GRI Standards are structured as a system of interrelated standards that are organized into three series: GRI
Universal Standards, GRI Sector Standards, and GRI Topic Standards (see Figure 1 in this Standard).
Universal Standards: GRI 1, GRI 2 and GRI 3
GRI 1: Foundation 2021 specifies the requirements that the organization must comply with to report in accordance
with the GRI Standards. The organization begins using the GRI Standards by consulting GRI 1.
GRI 2: General Disclosures 2021 contains disclosures that the organization uses to provide information about its
reporting practices and other organizational details, such as its activities, governance, and policies.
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 provides guidance on how to determine material topics. It also contains disclosures that
the organization uses to report information about its process of determining material topics, its list of material topics,
and how it manages each topic.
Sector Standards
The Sector Standards provide information for organizations about their likely material topics. The organization uses
the Sector Standards that apply to its sectors when determining its material topics and when determining what to
report for each material topic.
Topic Standards
The Topic Standards contain disclosures that the organization uses to report information about its impacts in relation
to particular topics. The organization uses the Topic Standards according to the list of material topics it has
determined using GRI 3.
5 GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016
Figure 1. GRI Standards: Universal, Sector and Topic Standards
GRI Standards
Universal Standards Sector Standards Topic Standards
Requirements and
principles for using the
GRI Standards
Disclosures about the
reporting organization
Disclosures and
guidance about the
organization's material
topics
Apply all three Universal Use the Sector Standards that Select Topic Standards to report
Standards to your reporting apply to your sectors specific information on your
material topics
Using this Standard
This Standard can be used by any organization – regardless of size, type, sector, geographic location, or reporting
experience – to report information about its impacts related to diversity and equal opportunity at work. In addition to
this Standard, disclosures that relate to this topic can be found in GRI 404: Training and Education 2016 and GRI 406:
Non-discrimination 2016.
An organization reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards is required to report the following disclosures if it has
determined diversity and equal opportunity to be a material topic:
• Disclosure 3-3 in GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 (see clause 1.1 in this Standard);
• Any disclosures from this Topic Standard that are relevant to the organization’s impacts related to diversity and
equal opportunity at work (Disclosure 405-1 through Disclosure 405-2).
See Requirements 4 and 5 in GRI 1: Foundation 2021.
Reasons for omission are permitted for these disclosures.
If the organization cannot comply with a disclosure or with a requirement in a disclosure (e.g., because the required
information is confidential or subject to legal prohibitions), the organization is required to specify the disclosure or the
requirement it cannot comply with, and provide a reason for omission together with an explanation in the GRI content
index. See Requirement 6 in GRI 1: Foundation 2021 for more information on reasons for omission.
If the organization cannot report the required information about an item specified in a disclosure because the item
(e.g., committee, policy, practice, process) does not exist, it can comply with the requirement by reporting this to be the
case. The organization can explain the reasons for not having this item, or describe any plans to develop it. The
disclosure does not require the organization to implement the item (e.g., developing a policy), but to report that the
item does not exist.
If the organization intends to publish a standalone sustainability report, it does not need to repeat information that it
has already reported publicly elsewhere, such as on web pages or in its annual report. In such a case, the
organization can report a required disclosure by providing a reference in the GRI content index as to where this
information can be found (e.g., by providing a link to the web page or citing the page in the annual report where the
6 GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016
information has been published).
Requirements, guidance and defined terms
The following apply throughout this Standard:
Requirements are presented in bold font and indicated by the word 'shall'. An organization must comply with
requirements to report in accordance with the GRI Standards.
Requirements may be accompanied by guidance.
Guidance includes background information, explanations, and examples to help the organization better understand
the requirements. The organization is not required to comply with guidance.
The Standards may also include recommendations. These are cases where a particular course of action is
encouraged but not required.
The word ‘should’ indicates a recommendation, and the word ‘can’ indicates a possibility or option.
Defined terms are underlined in the text of the GRI Standards and linked to their definitions in the Glossary. The
organization is required to apply the definitions in the Glossary.
1. Topic management disclosures
7 GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016
1. Topic management disclosures
An organization reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards is required to report how it manages each of its
material topics.
An organization that has determined diversity and equal opportunity to be a material topic is required to report how it
manages the topic using Disclosure 3-3 in GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 (see clause 1.1 in this section).
This section is therefore designed to supplement – and not replace – Disclosure 3-3 in GRI 3.
1.1 The reporting organization shall report how it manages diversity and equal
REQUIREMENTS
opportunity using Disclosure 3-3 in GRI 3: Material Topics 2021.
The reporting organization can also describe the legal and socioeconomic environment that
GUIDANCE
provides opportunities for, and barriers to, gender equity.
This can include the share of female workers performing the organization’s activities, their equal
remuneration, and their participation at the highest governance level.
2. Topic disclosures
8 GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016
2. Topic disclosures
Disclosure 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
REQUIREMENTS
a. Percentage of individuals within the organization’s governance bodies in each of the
following diversity categories:
i. Gender;
ii. Age group: under 30 years old, 30-50 years old, over 50 years old;
iii. Other indicators of diversity where relevant (such as minority or vulnerable
groups).
b. Percentage of employees per employee category in each of the following diversity
categories:
i. Gender;
ii. Age group: under 30 years old, 30-50 years old, over 50 years old;
iii. Other indicators of diversity where relevant (such as minority or vulnerable
groups).
2.1 When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 405-1, the reporting organization
RECOMMENDATIONS
should use data from Disclosure 2-7 in GRI 2: General Disclosures 2021 to identify the
total number of employees.
Guidance for Disclosure 405-1
GUIDANCE
Examples of governance bodies that exist within an organization can be the board of directors,
management committee, or a similar body for a non-corporate organization.
An organization can identify any other indicators of diversity used in its own monitoring and
recording that are relevant for reporting.
Background
This disclosure provides a quantitative measure of diversity within an organization and can be
used in conjunction with sectoral or regional benchmarks. Comparisons between broad
employee diversity and management team diversity offer information on equal opportunity.
Information reported in this disclosure also helps in assessing which issues can be of
particular relevance to certain segments of the governance bodies or employees.
9 GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016
Disclosure 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women
to men
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
REQUIREMENTS
a. Ratio of the basic salary and remuneration of women to men for each employee
category, by significant locations of operation.
b. The definition used for ‘significant locations of operation’.
2.2 When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 405-2, the reporting organization
RECOMMENDATIONS
should base remuneration on the average pay of each gender grouping within each
employee category.
Guidance for Disclosure 405-2
GUIDANCE
The reporting organization can draw from the information used for Disclosure 405-1 to identify
the total number of employees in each employee category by gender.
Background
An organization can take an active role in reviewing its operations and decisions, in order to
promote diversity, eliminate gender bias, and support equal opportunity. These principles apply
equally to recruitment, opportunities for advancement, and remuneration policies. Equality of
remuneration is also an important factor in retaining qualified employees.
10 GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016
Glossary
This glossary provides definitions for terms used in this Standard. The organization is required to apply these
definitions when using the GRI Standards.
The definitions included in this glossary may contain terms that are further defined in the complete GRI Standards
Glossary. All defined terms are underlined. If a term is not defined in this glossary or in the complete GRI Standards
Glossary, definitions that are commonly used and understood apply.
basic salary
B
fixed, minimum amount paid to an employee for performing his or her duties
Note: Basic salary excludes any additional remuneration, such as payments for overtime
working or bonuses.
business partner
entity with which the organization has some form of direct and formal engagement for the
purpose of meeting its business objectives
Source: Shift and Mazars LLP, UN Guiding Principles Reporting Framework, 2015; modified
Examples: affiliates, business-to-business customers, clients, first-tier suppliers, franchisees,
joint venture partners, investee companies in which the organization has a
shareholding position
Note: Business partners do not include subsidiaries and affiliates that the organization
controls.
business relationships
relationships that the organization has with business partners, with entities in its value chain
including those beyond the first tier, and with any other entities directly linked to its operations,
products, or services
Source: United Nations (UN), Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights:
Implementing the United Nations “Protect, Respect and Remedy” Framework, 2011;
modified
Note: Examples of other entities directly linked to the organization’s operations, products,
or services are a non-governmental organization with which the organization
delivers support to a local community or state security forces that protect the
organization’s facilities.
child
C
person under the age of 15 years, or under the age of completion of compulsory schooling,
whichever is higher
Note 1: Exceptions can occur in certain countries where economies and educational
facilities are insufficiently developed, and a minimum age of 14 years applies.
These countries of exception are specified by the International Labour Organization
(ILO) in response to a special application by the country concerned and in
consultation with representative organizations of employers and workers.
Note 2: The ILO Minimum Age Convention, 1973, (No. 138), refers to both child labor and
young workers.
employee
E
individual who is in an employment relationship with the organization according to national law
or practice
employee category
breakdown of employees by level (such as senior management, middle management) and
function (such as technical, administrative, production)
11 GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016
Note: This information is derived from the organization’s own human resources system.
governance body
G
formalized group of individuals responsible for the strategic guidance of the organization, the
effective monitoring of management, and the accountability of management to the broader
organization and its stakeholders
human rights
H
rights inherent to all human beings, which include, at a minimum, the rights set out in the United
Nations (UN) International Bill of Human Rights and the principles concerning fundamental
rights set out in the International Labour Organization (ILO) Declaration on Fundamental
Principles and Rights at Work
Source: United Nations (UN), Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights:
Implementing the United Nations “Protect, Respect and Remedy” Framework, 2011;
modified
Note: See Guidance to 2-23-b-i in GRI 2: General Disclosures 2021 for more information
on ‘human rights’.
impact
I
effect the organization has or could have on the economy, environment, and people, including on
their human rights, which in turn can indicate its contribution (negative or positive) to sustainable
development
Note 1: Impacts can be actual or potential, negative or positive, short-term or long-term,
intended or unintended, and reversible or irreversible.
Note 2: See section 2.1 in GRI 1: Foundation 2021 for more information on ‘impact’.
indicator of diversity
indicator of diversity for which the organization gathers data
Examples: age, ancestry and ethnic origin, citizenship, creed, disability, gender
Indigenous Peoples
Indigenous Peoples are generally identified as:
• tribal peoples in independent countries whose social, cultural and economic conditions
distinguish them from other sections of the national community, and whose status is
regulated wholly or partially by their own customs or traditions or by special laws or
regulations;
• peoples in independent countries who are regarded as indigenous on account of their
descent from the populations which inhabited the country, or a geographical region to which
the country belongs, at the time of conquest or colonization or the establishment of present
state boundaries and who, irrespective of their legal status, retain some or all of their own
social, economic, cultural and political institutions.
Source: International Labour Organization (ILO), Indigenous and Tribal Peoples Convention,
1989 (No. 169)
local community
L
individuals or groups of individuals living or working in areas that are affected or that could be
affected by the organization’s activities
Note: The local community can range from those living adjacent to the organization’s
operations to those living at a distance.
material topics
M
topics that represent the organization’s most significant impacts on the economy, environment,
and people, including impacts on their human rights
Note: See section 2.2 in GRI 1: Foundation 2021 and section 1 in GRI 3: Material Topics
2021 for more information on ‘material topics’.
12 GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016
remuneration
R
basic salary plus additional amounts paid to a worker
Note: Examples of additional amounts paid to a worker can include those based on years
of service, bonuses including cash and equity such as stocks and shares, benefit
payments, overtime, time owed, and any additional allowances, such as
transportation, living and childcare allowances.
severity (of an impact)
S
The severity of an actual or potential negative impact is determined by its scale (i.e., how grave
the impact is), scope (i.e., how widespread the impact is), and irremediable character (how hard
it is to counteract or make good the resulting harm).
Source: Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), OECD Due
Diligence Guidance for Responsible Business Conduct, 2018; modified
United Nations (UN), The Corporate Responsibility to Respect Human Rights: An
Interpretive Guide, 2012; modified
Note: See section 1 in GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 for more information on ‘severity’.
stakeholder
individual or group that has an interest that is affected or could be affected by the organization’s
activities
Source: Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), OECD Due
Diligence Guidance for Responsible Business Conduct, 2018; modified
Examples: business partners, civil society organizations, consumers, customers, employees
and other workers, governments, local communities, non-governmental
organizations, shareholders and other investors, suppliers, trade unions,
vulnerable groups
Note: See section 2.4 in GRI 1: Foundation 2021 for more information on ‘stakeholder’.
supplier
entity upstream from the organization (i.e., in the organization’s supply chain), which provides a
product or service that is used in the development of the organization’s own products or services
Examples: brokers, consultants, contractors, distributors, franchisees, home workers,
independent contractors, licensees, manufacturers, primary producers, sub-
contractors, wholesalers
Note: A supplier can have a direct business relationship with the organization (often
referred to as a first-tier supplier) or an indirect business relationship.
supply chain
range of activities carried out by entities upstream from the organization, which provide products
or services that are used in the development of the organization’s own products or services
sustainable development / sustainability
development that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future
generations to meet their own needs
Source: World Commission on Environment and Development, Our Common Future, 1987
Note: The terms ‘sustainability’ and ‘sustainable development’ are used interchangeably
in the GRI Standards.
value chain
V
range of activities carried out by the organization, and by entities upstream and downstream
from the organization, to bring the organization’s products or services from their conception to
their end use
13 GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016
Note 1: Entities upstream from the organization (e.g., suppliers) provide products or
services that are used in the development of the organization’s own products or
services. Entities downstream from the organization (e.g., distributors, customers)
receive products or services from the organization.
Note 2: The value chain includes the supply chain.
vulnerable group
group of individuals with a specific condition or characteristic (e.g., economic, physical, political,
social) that could experience negative impacts as a result of the organization’s activities more
severely than the general population
Examples: children and youth; elderly persons; ex-combatants; HIV/AIDS-affected households;
human rights defenders; Indigenous Peoples; internally displaced persons;
migrant workers and their families; national or ethnic, religious and linguistic
minorities; persons who might be discriminated against based on their sexual
orientation, gender identity, gender expression, or sex characteristics (e.g., lesbian,
gay, bisexual, transgender, intersex); persons with disabilities; refugees or
returning refugees; women
Note: Vulnerabilities and impacts can differ by gender.
worker
W
person that performs work for the organization
Examples: employees, agency workers, apprentices, contractors, home workers, interns, self-
employed persons, sub-contractors, volunteers, and persons working for
organizations other than the reporting organization, such as for suppliers
Note: In the GRI Standards, in some cases, it is specified whether a particular subset of
workers is required to be used.
Bibliography
14 GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016
Bibliography
This section lists authoritative intergovernmental instruments used in developing this Standard.
Authoritative instruments:
1. International Labour Organization (ILO) Convention 100, ‘Equal Remuneration Convention’, 1951.
2. International Labour Organization (ILO) Convention 111, ‘Discrimination (Employment and Occupation)
Convention’, 1958.
3. International Labour Organization (ILO), ‘Tripartite Declaration of Principles concerning Multinational Enterprises
and Social Policy’, 2006.
4. Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), OECD Guidelines for Multinational
Enterprises, 2011.
5. United Nations (UN) Convention, ‘Convention on the Elimination of all Forms of Discrimination against Women
(CEDAW)’, 1979.
6. United Nations (UN) Convention, ‘International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial
Discrimination’, 1965.
7. United Nations (UN) Declaration, ‘Declaration on the Elimination of All Forms of Intolerance and of
Discrimination based on Religion and Belief’, 1981.
8. United Nations (UN) Declaration, ‘Declaration on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination’, 1963.
9. United Nations (UN) Declaration, ‘Declaration on the Rights of Persons Belonging to National or Ethnic,
Religious and Linguistic Minorities’, 1992.
10. United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) Declaration, ‘Declaration on Race
and Racial Prejudice’, 1978.
11. United Nations Entity for Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women (UN Women) and United Nations
Global Compact, ‘Women’s Empowerment Principles’, 2011.
12. United Nations (UN) Fourth World Conference on Women, ‘Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action’, 1995.
PO Box 10039
1001 EA Amsterdam
The Netherlands
www.globalreporting.org
