GRI 14: Mining Sector 2024
14
EFFECTIVE DATE: 1 JANUARY 2026
SECTOR STANDARD
GRI 14: Mining Sector 2024
Sector Standard
Effective Date
This Standard is effective for reports or other materials published on or after 1 January 2026.
Responsibility
This Standard is issued by the Global Sustainability Standards Board (GSSB). Any feedback on the GRI Standards
can be submitted to gssbsecretariat@globalreporting.org for the consideration of the GSSB.
Due Process
This Standard was developed in the public interest and in accordance with the requirements of the GSSB Due
Process Protocol. It has been developed using multi-stakeholder expertise, and with regard to authoritative
intergovernmental instruments and widely held expectations of organizations relating to social, environmental, and
economic responsibilities.
Legal Liability
This document, designed to promote sustainability reporting, has been developed by the Global Sustainability
Standards Board (GSSB) through a unique multi-stakeholder consultative process involving representatives from
organizations and report information users from around the world. While the GRI Supervisory Board, Management
Board, and GSSB encourage the use of the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI Standards) and related
Interpretations by all organizations, the preparation and publication of reports based fully or partially on the GRI
Standards and related Interpretations are the full responsibility of those producing them. Neither the GRI Supervisory
Board, Management Board, GSSB, nor Stichting Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) can assume responsibility for any
consequences or damages resulting directly or indirectly from the use of the GRI Standards and related
Interpretations in the preparation of reports, or the use of reports based on the GRI Standards and related
Interpretations.
Copyright and trademark notice
This document is copyright-protected by Stichting Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). The reproduction and distribution
of this document for information and/or use in preparing a sustainability report is permitted without prior permission
from GRI. However, neither this document nor any extract from it may be reproduced, stored, translated, or transferred
in any form or by any means (electronic, mechanical, photocopied, recorded, or otherwise) for any other purpose
without prior written permission from GRI.
Global Reporting Initiative, GRI and logo, GSSB and logo, and GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI
Standards) and logo are trademarks of Stichting Global Reporting Initiative.
© 2025 GRI. All rights reserved.
ISBN 978-90-8866-140-2
3 GRI 14: Mining Sector 2024
Introduction
GRI 14: Mining Sector 2024 provides information for organizations involved in mining activities about their likely
material topics. These topics are likely to be material for mining organizations on the basis of the sector’s most
significant impacts on the economy, environment, and people, including on their human rights.
GRI 14 also contains a list of disclosures for mining organizations to report in relation to each likely material topic.
This includes disclosures from the GRI Topic Standards and other sources.
The Standard is structured as follows:
• Section 1 provides a high-level overview of the mining sector, including its activities, business relationships,
context, and the connections between the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and the likely
material topics for the sector.
• Section 2 outlines the topics that are likely to be material for mining organizations and, therefore, potentially merit
reporting. For each likely material topic, the sector’s most significant impacts are described and disclosures to
report information about the organization’s impacts in relation to the topic are listed.
• The Glossary contains defined terms with specific meanings when used in the GRI Standards. The terms are
underlined in the text and linked to the definitions.
• The Bibliography contains authoritative intergovernmental instruments and additional references used in
developing this Standard, listed by topic. It also lists further resources that the organization can consult.
The rest of the Introduction section provides an overview of the sector this Standard applies to, an overview of the
system of GRI Standards, and further information on using this Standard.
Sector this Standard applies to
GRI 14 applies to organizations undertaking any of the following:
• Exploration, extraction, including quarrying, and primary processing¹ of all types of minerals, metallic and non-
metallic, except for oil, gas, and coal.2
• Support activities for mining, such as transport and storage, when integrated into the mining organization’s core
operations.
• Supply of specialized products and services to mining organizations, such as those provided by contractors for
Engineering, Procurement, and Construction (EPC) and operational activities mentioned above.
This Standard can be used by any organization in the mining sector, regardless of size, type, geographic location, or
reporting experience. The Standard is not designed to capture the impacts specific to the artisanal and small-scale
mining (ASM) sector. However, this Standard does consider the impacts that mining organizations may have on ASM
operators and the impacts they may be involved with through their business relationships, interactions, or co-location
of their activities with ASM.3
The organization must use all applicable Sector Standards for the sectors in which it has substantial activities.
Sector classifications
Table 1 lists industry groupings relevant to the mining sector covered in this Standard in the Global Industry
Classification Standard (GICS®) [5], the Industry Classification Benchmark (ICB) [3], the International Standard
Industrial Classification of All Economic Activities (ISIC) [7], and the Sustainable Industry Classification System
(SICS®) [6].4 The table is intended to assist an organization in identifying whether GRI 14 applies to it and is for
reference only.
4 GRI 14: Mining Sector 2024
Table 1. Industry groupings relevant to the mining sector in other classification systems
CLASSIFICATION CLASSIFICATION CLASSIFICATION NAME
SYSTEM NUMBER
GICS® 151040 Metals and Mining (excluding manufacturers of aluminum and steel,
and metal recycling)
551020000 General Mining
55102010 Iron and Steel (excluding manufacturers of steel and metal recycling)
55102035 Aluminum (excluding manufacturers of aluminum and metal recycling)
ICB
55102040 Copper (excluding smelters and metal recycling)
55102050 Nonferrous Metals (excluding smelters and metal recycling)
55103020 Diamonds and Gemstones
55103025 Gold Mining (excluding smelters and metal recycling)
55103030 Platinum and precious metals (excluding smelters and metal
recycling)
ISIC 07 Mining of metal ores
08 Other mining and quarrying
099 Support activities for other mining and quarrying
SICS® EM-3 Metals and Mining (excluding manufacturers of aluminum and steel,
and metal recycling)
System of GRI Standards
This Standard is part of the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI Standards). The GRI Standards enable an
organization to report information about its most significant impacts on the economy, environment, and people,
including impacts on their human rights, and how it manages these impacts.
The GRI Standards are structured as a system of interrelated standards that are organized into three series: GRI
Universal Standards, GRI Sector Standards, and GRI Topic Standards (see Figure 1 in this Standard).
Universal Standards: GRI 1, GRI 2 and GRI 3
GRI 1: Foundation 2021 specifies the requirements that the organization must comply with to report in accordance
with the GRI Standards. The organization begins using the GRI Standards by consulting GRI 1.
GRI 2: General Disclosures 2021 contains disclosures that the organization uses to provide information about its
reporting practices and other organizational details, such as its activities, governance, and policies.
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 provides guidance on how to determine material topics. It also contains disclosures that
the organization uses to report information about its process of determining material topics, its list of material topics,
and how it manages each topic.
Sector Standards
The Sector Standards provide information for organizations about their likely material topics. The organization uses
the Sector Standards that apply to its sectors when determining its material topics and when determining what to
report for each material topic.
Topic Standards
The Topic Standards contain disclosures that the organization uses to report information about its impacts in relation
to particular topics. The organization uses the Topic Standards according to the list of material topics it has
determined using GRI 3.
Figure 1. GRI Standards: Universal, Sector and Topic Standards
5 GRI 14: Mining Sector 2024
GRI Standards
Universal Standards Sector Standards Topic Standards
Requirements and
principles for using the
GRI Standards
Disclosures about the
reporting organization
Disclosures and
guidance about the
organization's material
topics
Apply all three Universal Use the Sector Standards that Select Topic Standards to report
Standards to your reporting apply to your sectors specific information on your
material topics
Using this Standard
An organization in the mining sector reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards is required to use this Standard
when determining its material topics and then when determining what information to report for the material topics.
Determining material topics
Material topics represent an organization's most significant impacts on the economy, environment, and people,
including their human rights.
Section 1 of this Standard provides contextual information that can help the organization in identifying and assessing
its impacts.
Section 2 outlines the topics that are likely to be material for organizations in the mining sector. The organization is
required to review each topic described and determine whether it is a material topic for it.
The organization needs to use this Standard when determining its material topics. However, circumstances for each
organization vary, and the organization needs to determine its material topics according to its specific circumstances,
such as its business model; geographic, cultural, and legal operating context; ownership structure; and the nature of
its impacts. Because of this, not all topics listed in this Standard may be material for all organizations in the mining
sector. See GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 for step-by-step guidance on how to determine material topics.
If the organization has determined any of the topics included in this Standard as not material, then the organization is
required to list them in the GRI content index and explain why they are not material.
See Requirement 3 in GRI 1: Foundation 2021 and Box 5 in GRI 3 for more information on using Sector Standards to
determine material topics.
1 Primary processing can include, for example, milling, crushing, grinding, concentrating, and leaching to separate commercially valuable minerals from
their ores. Further stages of processing, such as smelting, refining, and metal recycling, will be the subject of a separate GRI Sector Standard.
2 Oil and gas, and coal have dedicated Sector Standards available: GRI 11: Oil and Gas Sector 2021 and GRI 12 Coal Sector 2022.
3 In this Standard, ASM is understood to comprise of formal or informal activities, often associated with simplified forms of mining, limited access to
technology, and high labor intensity. ASM can include individual operators, families, and cooperatives involving up to hundreds or even thousands of
miners.
4 The relevant industry groupings in the Statistical Classification of Economic Activities in the European Community (NACE) [1] and the North
American Industry Classification System (NAICS) [2] can also be established through available concordances with the International Standard
Industrial Classification (ISIC).
6 GRI 14: Mining Sector 2024
Determining what to report
For each material topic, an organization reports information about its impacts and how it manages these impacts.
Once an organization has determined a topic included in this Standard to be material, the Standard also helps the
organization identify disclosures to report information about its impacts relating to that topic.
For each topic in section 2 of this Standard, a reporting sub-section is included. These sub-sections list disclosures
from the GRI Topic Standards that are relevant to the topic. They may also list additional sector disclosures and
recommendations for the organization to report. This is done in cases where the Topic Standards do not provide
disclosures, or where the disclosures from the Topic Standards do not provide sufficient information about the
organization’s impacts in relation to a topic. These additional sector disclosures and recommendations may be
based on other sources. Figure 2 illustrates how the reporting included in each topic is structured.
The organization is required to report the disclosures from the Topic Standards listed for those topics it has
determined to be material. If any of the Topic Standards disclosures listed are not relevant to the organization’s
impacts, the organization is not required to report them. However, the organization is required to list these disclosures
in the GRI content index and provide ‘not applicable’ as the reason for omission for not reporting the disclosures. See
Requirement 6 in GRI 1: Foundation 2021 for more information on reasons for omission.
The additional sector disclosures and recommendations outline further information which has been identified as
relevant for organizations in the mining sector to report in relation to a topic. The organization should provide sufficient
information about its impacts in relation to each material topic, so that information users can make informed
assessments and decisions about the organization. For this reason, reporting these additional sector disclosures
and recommendations is encouraged, however it is not a requirement. When the organization reports additional
sector disclosures, it is required to list them in the GRI content index (see Requirement 7 in GRI 1).
If the organization reports information that applies to more than one material topic, it does not need to repeat it for
each topic. The organization can report this information once, with a clear explanation of all the topics it covers. If the
organization intends to publish a standalone sustainability report, it does not need to repeat information that it has
already reported publicly elsewhere, such as on web pages or in its annual report. In such a case, the organization
can report on a required disclosure by providing a reference in the GRI content index as to where this information can
be found (e.g., by providing a link to the web page or citing the page in the annual report where the information has
been published).
See Requirement 5 in GRI 1 for more information on using Sector Standards to report disclosures.
GRI Sector Standard reference numbers
GRI Sector Standard reference numbers are included for all disclosures listed in this Standard, both those from GRI
Standards and additional sector disclosures. When listing the disclosures from this Standard in the GRI content
index, the organization is required to include the associated GRI Sector Standard reference numbers (see
Requirement 7 in GRI 1: Foundation 2021). This identifier helps information users assess which of the disclosures
listed in the applicable Sector Standards are included in the organization’s reporting.
Defined terms
Defined terms are underlined in the text of the GRI Standards and linked to their definitions in the Glossary. The
organization is required to apply the definitions in the Glossary.
References and resources
The authoritative intergovernmental instruments and additional references used in developing this Standard, as well
as further resources that may help report on likely material topics and can be consulted by the organization are listed
in the Bibliography. These complement the references and resources listed in GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 and in the
GRI Topic Standards.
Figure 2. Structure of reporting included in each topic
7 GRI 14: Mining Sector 2024
1 Management of the topic
The organization is required to report how it manages
each material topic using Disclosure 3-3 in GRI 3:
Material Topics 2021.
2 Topic Standards disclosures
Disclosures from the GRI Topic Standards that are
relevant to the topic are listed here. When the topic is
determined by the organization as material, it is required
5
to report these disclosures (if they are relevant to its
impacts) or explain why they are not applicable in the GRI
1
content index. See the Topic Standard for the content of
3 the disclosure, including requirements,
recommendations, and guidance.
3 Additional sector recommendations
Additional sector recommendations may be listed. These
2 complement Topic Standard disclosures and Disclosure
3-3 with sector-specific reporting expectations. These are
recommended to report, but not required.
4 Additional sector disclosures
4 Additional sector disclosures may be listed. Reporting
these, together with any Topic Standard disclosures,
ensures the organization provides sufficient information
about its impacts in relation to the topic. These are
recommended to report, but not required.
5 Sector Standard reference numbers
GRI Sector Standard reference numbers are required to
be included in the GRI Content Index. This helps
information users assess which of the disclosures listed
in the Sector Standards are included in the organization’s
reporting.
1. Sector profile
Minerals are essential for the functioning of modern societies and economies. They are used, for example, to make
steel and other materials for infrastructure, critical components for transportation, communications, and technological
solutions, and to create fertilizers for farming. Minerals are indispensable in the transition to a low-carbon economy
and are used for renewable energy technologies, such as wind turbines, solar panels, and the manufacture of electric
storage batteries.
Minerals are divided into metallic and non-metallic minerals. Metallic minerals (or metals) can be classified by their
properties or function. They comprise precious metals (e.g., gold, silver, platinum); ferrous metals (containing iron);
non-ferrous metals (e.g., aluminum, cobalt, copper, lithium, uranium, zinc); and rare earth elements (e.g.,
neodymium, scandium, yttrium). Sand, stone, lime, potash, and diamonds are examples of non-metallic minerals.
The capital-intensive mining sector represents a wide range of organizations. The sector includes large publicly listed
companies often vertically integrated across the value chain, state-owned enterprises (SOEs), and small and
medium-sized organizations known as 'junior companies', which often specialize in exploration. Organizations
engaged in quarrying are typically less complex, with little or no processing requirements.
Sector activities and business relationships
Through their activities and business relationships, organizations can have an effect on the economy, environment,
8 GRI 14: Mining Sector 2024
and people, and in turn make negative or positive contributions to sustainable development. When determining its
material topics, the organization should consider the impacts of both its activities and its business relationships.
Activities
The impacts of an organization vary according to the types of activities it undertakes. The following list outlines some
of the key activities of the mining sector, as defined in this Standard. This list is not exhaustive.
Prospecting and exploration: Surveying of resources, including feasibility assessments, geologic mapping, aerial
photography, geophysical measuring, and exploration drilling.
Development: Design, planning, and construction of mines, access roads, and facilities for processing, waste
management, and workers.
Mining operations: Extraction of ores and minerals from the earth using different techniques, such as surface mining,
placer mining, underground mining, or in situ techniques, as well as primary processing to separate commercially
valuable minerals from their ores. This phase also includes the disposal of waste and management of tailings
facilities.
Closure and rehabilitation: Decommissioning of processing facilities, land reclamation, restoration, and
rehabilitation in line with post-closure objectives, as well as closing and capping waste facilities and associated
infrastructure.
Transportation: Moving minerals and waste to the point of storage, consumption, or further processing by, for
example, barge, conveyor belt, train, truck, or ship, or transported as slurry by pipeline.
Storage: Storage of minerals at mine sites or import and export terminals.
Sales and marketing: Selling minerals, for example, for iron and steel production, cement production, and use in
manufacturing.
Business relationships
An organization’s business relationships include those with business partners, entities in its value chain including
those beyond the first tier, and any other entities directly linked to the organization’s operations, products, or services.
The following types of business relationships are prevalent in the mining sector and relevant for identifying the
impacts of organizations in the sector.
Joint ventures are common arrangements in mining in which organizations share the costs, benefits, and liabilities
of assets or a project. They can also include partnerships with SOEs. An organization in the mining sector can be
involved with negative impacts as a result of participating in a joint venture, even if it is a non-operating partner.
Suppliers represent a significant share of spending by mine site and are commonly used to perform mining
operations or to provide products or services, including security. Some of the most significant impacts covered in this
Standard concern the supply chain.
Customers and other parties in the value chain are increasingly voicing expectations for supply chain traceability to
ensure the responsible production of minerals. They, therefore, constitute a key driver of transparency in the sector.
The sector and sustainable development
The mining sector plays an important role in many national economies and can make significant contributions to the
economic development of regions and countries. Low- and middle-income countries are most likely to rely on their
natural resources as a primary driver of economic activity – a dependence that has grown steadily over the last few
decades. In mining-dependent economies, responsible mining practices can lead to reductions in levels of poverty
and overall improvements in social well-being.
Financial flows around mining projects are substantial, deriving, for example, from taxes, royalties, and other
payments to governments or spending on suppliers. Along with providing employment opportunities, particularly in
the supply chain, the sector also invests in infrastructure and community development projects. Benefits like these
can contribute to long-term development needs and priorities for rural areas and countries that have limited sources
of additional revenue. These flows represent important benefit streams but can also give rise to corruption.
Locating, extracting, and processing minerals entails complex scientific, environmental, and socioeconomic planning.
9 GRI 14: Mining Sector 2024
The scale of mining projects can be significant, sometimes spanning vast areas and taking place over many
decades. Government legislation, including environmental protections and tax regimes, set out by the countries
where mining occurs largely regulate mining projects. If poorly managed, mining can create negative impacts with
lasting implications for ecosystems, human rights, and the health, safety, and well-being of workers and local
communities. Climate change brings additional challenges to managing the impacts of mining with consequences
for water management, biodiversity, and extreme heat. Moreover, the decline of ore grades increases the amount of
energy and resources needed by mining organizations to locate and extract minerals from rock, resulting in more
pollution and waste generated [20].
Global demand for minerals is expected to increase due to continued economic growth, improved living standards,
and the need to transition to a low-carbon economy. While minerals are essential to clean energy technologies that
underpin global climate change mitigation goals, the sector is increasingly under scrutiny due to its contribution to
GHG emissions and the need to reduce them in the value chain. The mining sector is also facing expectations to
transition to renewable energy sources and implement circular economy principles, such as reusing and recycling
existing materials.
The drive to mine certain minerals needed for clean technologies has also raised concerns over risks of increased
environmental and human rights impacts. When higher-grade ores and proven deposits are depleted, mining
activities may be driven to more remote or ecologically sensitive areas, areas characterized by water stress or
inhabited by Indigenous Peoples, or fragile, conflict-prone states. Additionally, land use, displacement, environmental
impacts, and the economic potential associated with mineral extraction can inflame conflict. This can sometimes
result in violence against or within local communities.
Box 1. Gender in mining
Because of the significance of impacts that mining organizations have at a community level, there is a growing
expectation to disclose information on their local impacts on the economy, environment, and people. As mining can
have different impacts on women and men, organizations are also increasingly expected to consider and address
the distinct impacts of their activities on different genders. For example, women are disproportionately and uniquely
affected by environmental degradation, climate change, and mining-induced social impacts like sexual and gender-
based violence [12] [21]. Additionally, a lack of job opportunities can affect women's financial independence, and
conditions of work in the sector can pose additional health and safety risks for women [23].
Applying gender-specific human rights due diligence approaches can address these issues, including when
conducting community engagement or assessing aspects related to land rights, security, grievance resolution, and
social investments. Organizations can also implement gender-responsive corporate policies and codes of conduct
in the workplace. Recognizing how the impacts of mining can be more adverse or beneficial depending on unique
social circumstances can broadly contribute to meaningful engagement with affected stakeholders and result in
more informed actions by organizations to manage their impacts [9] [18] [21] [26].
A number of topics in this Standard list reporting disclosures that include a breakdown of reported information by
gender. This is especially important if the impacts or reported numbers differ significantly for women and men.
Beyond these instances, organizations can proactively provide gender-disaggregated data for any other topic where
relevant and useful.
Sustainable Development Goals
The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), part of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development adopted by the
193 United Nations (UN) member states, comprise the world’s comprehensive plan of action for achieving
sustainable development [11].
Since the SDGs and targets associated with them are integrated and indivisible, mining organizations have the
potential to contribute to all SDGs by enhancing their positive impacts or by preventing and mitigating their negative
impacts on the economy, environment, and people.
The mining sector can contribute to achieving Goal 7: Affordable and Clean Energy and Goal 13: Climate Action by
supplying critical minerals necessary for the low-carbon transition while mitigating GHG emissions through the use of
renewable energy and energy efficiency measures.
The sector has connections to Goal 6: Clean Water and Sanitation and Goal 15: Life on Land due to the impacts that
water use and land use by mining organizations can have on local communities and the environment.
10 GRI 14: Mining Sector 2024
The mining sector can make meaningful contributions to Goal 8: Decent Work and Economic Growth and Goal 1: No
Poverty because it provides an essential source of revenue and employment in many regions while also providing
materials for other industries that drive economic growth. With proper management of environmental impacts and the
continuing supply of materials that enable infrastructure development, the mining sector can contribute to Goal 11:
Sustainable Cities and Communities and Goal 12: Responsible Consumption and Production.
Table 2 presents connections between the likely material topics for the mining sector and the SDGs. These links
were identified based on an assessment of the impacts described in each likely material topic, the targets associated
with each SDG, and existing mappings undertaken for the sector (see reference [32] in the Bibliography).
Table 2 is not a reporting tool but presents connections between the mining sector’s significant impacts and the
goals of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. See references [32] and [31] in the Bibliography for
information on reporting progress towards the SDGs using the GRI Standards.
Table 2. Links between the likely material topics for the mining sector and the SDGs
Topic 14.1 GHG emissions
Topic 14.2 Climate adaptation and
resilience
Topic 14.3 Air emissions
Topic 14.4 Biodiversity
Topic 14.5 Waste
Topic 14.6 Tailings
Topic 14.7 Water and effluents
Topic 14.8 Closure and rehabilitation
Topic 14.9 Economic impacts
Topic 14.10 Local communities
Topic 14.11 Rights of Indigenous
Peoples
Topic 14.12 Land and resource rights
Topic 14.13 Artisanal and small-scale
mining (ASM)
Topic 14.14 Security practices
Topic 14.15 Critical incident
management
Topic 14.16 Occupational health and
safety
Topic 14.17 Employment practices
Topic 14.18 Child labor
Topic 14.19 Forced labor and modern
slavery
Topic 14.20 Freedom of association
and collective bargaining
Topic 14.21 Non-discrimination and
equal opportunity
Topic 14.22 Anti-corruption
Topic 14.23 Payments to governments
Topic 14.24 Public policy
11 GRI 14: Mining Sector 2024
Topic 14.25 Conflict-affected and
high-risk areas
Box 2. Other key international instruments and initiatives supporting responsible mining
Downstream actors, investors, and regulators increasingly expect mining organizations to conduct human rights
due diligence. The OECD Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals from Conflict-
Affected and High-Risk Areas has been widely adopted by organizations to reduce the risk of severe human rights
impacts, fueling conflict and financial crime. The OECD guidance has also been adopted by several national and
supranational regulatory instruments, such as the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of
2010 in the United States and the Mineral Supply Due Diligence Regulation in the European Union. Likewise, the
Regional Initiative against the Illegal Exploitation of Natural Resources, administered by the International
Conference on the Great Lakes Region (ICGLR), aims to break the link between mineral revenues and conflict
financing.
Organizations such as the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) and Intergovernmental Forum on
Mining, Minerals, Metals, and Sustainable Development (IGF) are helping countries enhance and communicate on
their resource governance and financial benefit-sharing. These efforts show the increasing global push to reveal
the path of mineral revenues within governments and the economy, concentrating on issues like transparency over
project-level payments, ownership structures, and agreements, permits, contracts, and licenses, as well as wider
legal and policy areas affecting the sector to leverage the benefits of mining for local stakeholders.
Similarly, many government-led efforts, including those involving the World Bank and public-private collaborations,
have driven increased attention and expectations in the mining sector to identify, assess, prevent, and reduce
impacts, all while improving traceability and transparency.
2. Likely material topics
This section comprises the likely material topics for the mining sector. Each topic describes the sector’s most
significant impacts related to the topic and lists disclosures that have been identified as relevant for reporting on the
topic by mining organizations. The organization is required to review each topic in this section and determine whether
it is a material topic for the organization, and then to determine what information to report for its material topics.
Mine-site disclosure
This disclosure applies to organizations that own or operate mine sites.5
Mining activities have impacts that often manifest locally. Given that an organization’s operations may span diverse
regions, environments, and jurisdictions, impacts can vary greatly depending on where activities occur. An
organization should assess and report information about its impacts in relation to appropriate local contexts (see the
Sustainability Context principle in GRI 1: Foundation 2021 for more information).
Several topics in this Standard include mine-site-level reporting. Where impacts are highly significant for some mine
sites and not others, organizations should provide site-level information about the sites where impacts are highly
significant.
In other cases, disaggregated data may be needed for all mine sites to allow information users to make accurate
assessments about the organization's overall contributions to sustainable development. These include certain public
interest topics, such as greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions or biodiversity, where the mining sector has considerable
impacts globally.
Organizations can proactively provide mine-site disaggregated data for any topic identified as material for reporting.
Table 3 offers an example of how to present information for Disclosure 14.0.1. Organizations can use the table to
indicate instances where impacts are highly significant for specific mine sites, and whether disaggregated data is
provided for the site.
ADDITIONAL SECTOR DISCLOSURES SECTOR
STANDARD
REF #
12 GRI 14: Mining Sector 2024
List the organization’s mine sites and report the organization's definition used for ‘mine site’. For each 14.0.1
site, report:
• the name of the site;
• the geographic location (country and coordinates);
• the size in hectares.
Table 3. Example template for presenting information on mine-site disclosure
The table offers an example of how to present information for Disclosure 14.0.1. The organization can amend the
table according to its practices, for example by reporting additional information.
Material topics Name of Site 1 Name of Site 2 Name of Site 3
Country: XXX Country: XXX Country: XXX
Coordinates: XXX Coordinates: XXX Coordinates: XXX
Size: XXX hectares Size: XXX hectares Size: XXX hectares
Highly Site-level Highly Site-level Highly Site-level
significant data significant data significant data
impacts impacts impacts
GHG emissions Y Y Y Y Y N
Climate adaptation and resilience Y N Y N Y N
Air emissions Y Y Y Y Y Y
Biodiversity Y Y Y Y Y Y
Waste Y Y Y Y Y Y
Tailings Y Y Y Y Y Y
Water and effluents Y Y Y Y Y N
Closure and rehabilitation Y Y Y Y Y Y
Economic impacts Y Y Y Y Y N
Local communities Y Y Y Y Y Y
Rights of Indigenous Peoples - - Y Y - -
Land and resource rights - - Y Y - -
Artisanal and small-scale mining - - - - Y Y
(ASM)
13 GRI 14: Mining Sector 2024
Security practices - - Y N Y Y
Critical incident management Y Y Y Y Y Y
Occupational health and safety Y N Y N Y Y
Employment practices Y N Y N Y Y
Child labor - - Y Y - -
Forced labor and modern slavery Y N - - - -
Freedom of association and Y Y Y Y Y Y
collective bargaining
Non-discrimination and equal Y N Y Y Y Y
opportunity
Anti-corruption Y Y Y Y Y Y
Payments to governments Y Y Y Y Y Y
Public policy - - Y Y - -
Conflict-affected and high-risk - - - - Y Y
areas
[Additional topic/s] Y Y - - - -
Topic 14.1 GHG emissions
Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions comprise air emissions that contribute to climate change. This topic covers
direct (Scope 1) and energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions related to an organization’s activities, as well as
other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions that occur upstream and downstream of the organization’s activities.
Mining activities are energy-intensive and contribute to greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions that cause climate change.
Most GHG emissions from mining activities are associated with the use of fossil fuel-powered vehicles and the
consumption of self-generated and purchased electricity. Therefore, most emissions in the mining sector are direct
(Scope 1) GHG emissions from sources owned or controlled by the organization. Additionally, energy indirect (Scope
2) GHG emissions result from the generation of purchased or acquired electricity, heating, cooling, and steam
consumed by the organization.
Energy-intensive processes and activities include excavation, mine operations, and material transfer. The primary
GHG emitted through the sector’s activities is carbon dioxide (CO ). Other GHGs include methane (CH), nitrous oxide
2 4
(NO), hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs), perfluorocarbons (PFCs), sulfur hexafluoride (SF ), and nitrogen trifluoride (NF).
2 6 3
The amount of energy used at a mine and the resulting emissions depend on several factors, such as mining
method, mine depth, geology, mine productivity, and the degree and method of processing required. For example,
most of the energy needs of open pit mines are associated with extensive soil and rock movement and longer haul
distances, while underground mines have greater pumping, ventilation, cooling, and hoisting-related energy
requirements.
Beyond the total amount of energy used, the GHG emissions intensity of mining activities can vary according to mine
design and planning, operational practices, and the energy source used. Coal as a fuel source has the highest
emissions intensity compared to other fossil fuels, typically releasing more than twice the amount of GHGs than
natural gas per unit of electricity produced.
GHG emissions can also increase due to a human-induced change in the use or management of lands, which may
lead to a change in land cover. For instance, when forests are cleared to enable mineral extraction and the supporting
infrastructure (see also topic 14.4 Biodiversity). Land use change emissions are more prevalent in surface mining
due to the greater land use requirements and often lower-grade ores. Methane (CH ) can also be released through
4
extraction, venting, or as fugitive emissions. Closure activities can further contribute to GHG emissions. However, the
rehabilitation of mine sites can be used to capture CO with appropriate reclamation and post-reclamation strategies.
2
In addition to Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions, mining organizations are also under increasing scrutiny over
14 GRI 14: Mining Sector 2024
other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions up and downstream from mining activities. There is a growing expectation for
emissions reduction throughout the value chain. For organizations mining gold and other precious metals, the most
substantial emissions tend to originate upstream from the organization, namely, from the goods and services they
procure. Where minerals require extensive refining, such as smelting, most Scope 3 GHG emissions tend to
originate in downstream processes, in particular where coal is used as an energy source. Examples include the
manufacture of steel, aluminum, and cement.
To combat climate change, parties to the Paris Agreement have committed to transition to a low-carbon economy.
Organizations in the sector are increasingly expected to set GHG emissions targets and reduce emissions in line
with the latest scientific evidence on the global effort needed to limit global warming to 1.5° C [42] (see also topic 14.2
Climate adaptation and resilience). Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions can be reduced, for example, through
energy efficiency measures, electrification of equipment, and switching to renewable or low-carbon fuel sources.
In some cases, emissions reduction initiatives such as the electrification of a mine may bring shared power to local
communities and businesses. However, it can pose additional challenges to communities, including increased
pressure on regional and national energy grids, energy supply disruptions, job losses, or new environmental
challenges. Organizations can partner with governments to mitigate such impacts and invest in solutions such as
developing renewable energy infrastructure to support mines and the post-mining transition. These efforts can
contribute to equitable and just outcomes for workers and the community (see also topics 14.8 Closure and
rehabilitation and 14.9 Economic impacts).
Reporting on GHG emissions
If the organization has determined GHG emissions to be a material topic, this sub-section lists the disclosures
identified as relevant for reporting on the topic by the mining sector.
STANDARD DISCLOSURE SECTOR
STANDARD
REF #
Management of the topic
GRI 3: Material Disclosure 3-3 Management of material topics 14.1.1
Topics 2021
Topic Standard disclosures
GRI 302: Energy Disclosure 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 14.1.2
2016
Disclosure 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization 14.1.3
Disclosure 302-3 Energy intensity 14.1.4
GRI 305: Disclosure 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 14.1.5
Emissions 2016
Additional sector recommendations
• When reporting on gross direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions, include land use
change emissions.6
• Report a breakdown of the gross direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions by mine
site.
Disclosure 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 14.1.6
Additional sector recommendations
• Report a breakdown of the gross location-based energy indirect (Scope 2)
GHG emissions by mine site.
• If applicable, report a breakdown of the gross market-based energy indirect
(Scope 2) GHG emissions by mine site.
15 GRI 14: Mining Sector 2024
Disclosure 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 14.1.7
Disclosure 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 14.1.8
Additional sector recommendations
• Report a breakdown of the GHG emissions intensity ratio by mine site.
Disclosure 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 14.1.9
References and resources
GRI 302: Energy 2016 and GRI 305: Emissions 2016 list authoritative intergovernmental instruments and additional
references relevant to reporting on this topic.
The additional authoritative instruments and references used in developing this topic, as well as resources that may
be helpful for reporting on GHG emissions by the mining sector are listed in the Bibliography.
Topic 14.2 Climate adaptation and resilience
Organizations contribute to climate change and are simultaneously affected by it. Climate adaptation and
resilience refer to how an organization adjusts to current and anticipated climate change-related risks, as well as
how it contributes to the ability of societies and economies to withstand impacts from climate change.
Across the value chain, mining activities contribute to climate change by releasing GHG emissions (see also topic
14.1 GHG emissions). Changing climatic conditions, rising sea levels, and increasing intensity and frequency of
extreme weather events already affect every region of the globe, causing negative impacts on the health, livelihoods,
and human rights of millions of people. Physical impacts also pose risks to the workers, suppliers, local
communities, and infrastructure, including transportation routes linked or adjacent to mining activities.
Climate change has been found to aggravate the impacts of mining on the local environment, disrupting biodiversity
(see also topic 14.4 Biodiversity), affecting water quality and quantity, and exacerbating water stress (see also topic
14.7 Water and effluents). Climate change also heightens the risks of tailings storage facility failures due to increased
rainfall (see also topic 14.6 Tailings and 14.15 Critical incident management). Rising temperatures can have negative
impacts on air quality through the retention of particulate matter, which can exacerbate the impacts of air pollution
(see also topic 14.3 Air emissions). In addition, climate change has the propensity to create drier climates where
mining takes place, increasing the likelihood of dust events while diminishing the availability of water to suppress
dust.
These impacts can have implications for the health, safety, well-being, and livelihoods of local communities and
workers. They can also increase competition for natural resources, which often disproportionately affects women [70]
(see also topic 14.10 Local communities). Mining organizations can help strengthen local communities' resilience to
climate change-related impacts. Adaptation strategies can involve planning for post-mining land use, ensuring the
availability of natural resources for agriculture, promoting climate-resilient economic growth, and long-term
emergency planning. Organizations can also assist communities in obtaining reliable access to energy and water by,
for example, establishing shared renewable energy infrastructure, implementing energy-saving programs, and
sharing water resources.
The transition to a low-carbon economy is expected to increase demand for critical minerals needed for clean energy
technologies, such as cobalt, copper, lithium, nickel, and rare earth elements. If managed well, this can present
opportunities for mineral-rich countries through positive economic development (see also topic 14.9 Economic
impacts). However, increased negative environmental and human rights impacts are recognized as a major risk.
Many minerals that face rising demand are extracted from regions vulnerable to political instability, institutional
weakness, and human rights violations. Mining in these areas can trigger or exacerbate conflict, corruption,
environmental damage, and labor abuses (see also topic 14.25 Conflict-affected and high-risk areas).
Box 3. Scenario analysis
Scenario analysis allows for the simultaneous consideration of alternative forms of future states affected by climate
change and can be used to explore climate change-related risks. Organizations typically define scenarios
5 For the purposes of this Standard, a mine site consists of open-cut and underground mines and the surface area disturbed by a mining operation;
tailings storage and waste facilities; lands disturbed by the construction or improvement of haulage ways, pipelines and pipeline corridors; and roads
or any surface areas in which structures, equipment, materials, or any other elements used in the mining operation are situated. This excludes
downstream processing facilities such as smelters, refineries, unless they are co-located with on-site milling or beneficiation infrastructure.
16 GRI 14: Mining Sector 2024
according to the transition speed expressed in the average global temperature changes. A scenario compatible
with the Paris Agreement will require a temperature rise well below 2ºC, pursuing efforts to limit the temperature
rise to 1.5ºC. Other scenarios can be defined according to an organization’s national context. For more guidance,
see TCFD, The Use of Scenario Analysis in Disclosure of Climate-Related Risks and Opportunities, 2017 [82].
Reporting on climate adaptation and resilience
If the organization has determined climate adaptation and resilience to be a material topic, this sub-section lists the
disclosures identified as relevant for reporting on the topic by the mining sector.
STANDARD DISCLOSURE SECTOR
STANDARD
REF #
Management of the topic
GRI 3: Material Disclosure 3-3 Management of material topics 14.2.1
Topics 2021
Additional sector recommendations
• Describe the climate change-related scenarios used to assess the resilience
of the organization’s strategy, including a well-below 2°C, preferably 1.5°C,
scenario.7
• Report whether the organization has a climate change adaptation plan in
place, and if so, provide a summary of the plan and the progress made in
implementing the plan, and describe how engagement with stakeholders has
informed the plan.
Topic Standard disclosures
GRI 201: Disclosure 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to 14.2.2
Economic climate change
Performance
2016
Additional sector recommendations
• Describe how the substantive changes in operations, revenue, or expenditure
due to climate change affect or could affect the organization's workers and
suppliers, its contributions to economic development, and its payments to
governments.
References and resources
GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016 lists authoritative intergovernmental instruments and additional references
relevant to reporting on this topic.
The additional authoritative instruments and references used in developing this topic, as well as resources that may
be helpful for reporting on climate adaptation and resilience by the mining sector are listed in the Bibliography.
Topic 14.3 Air emissions
17 GRI 14: Mining Sector 2024
Air emissions include pollutants that have negative impacts on air quality and ecosystems, including human and
animal health. This topic covers impacts from emissions of sulfur oxides (SO), nitrogen oxides (NO), particulate
x x
matter (PM), volatile organic compounds (VOCs), carbon monoxide (CO), and heavy metals, such as mercury (Hg).
In addition to greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, mining activities are a source of other anthropogenic air emissions
classified as pollutants. Globally, air pollution causes acute health problems and millions of deaths annually by
contributing to heart and lung diseases, strokes, respiratory infections, and neurological damage [90]. Air emissions
are a major concern for the sector’s workers (see also topic 14.16 Occupational health and safety) and local
communities adjacent to mine sites and transportation routes (see also topic 14.10 Local communities). These
emissions disproportionately affect children, the elderly, and the poor [89]. Air emissions from mining activities can
also have negative impacts on nearby ecosystems (see also topic 14.4 Biodiversity).
Mining activities release air emissions during drilling, blasting, excavation, overburden removal, storage, mineral
processing, and transportation. Fugitive emissions can result from earthmoving, crushing, transportation, and
pollutants from tailings facilities (see also topic 14.6 Tailings). These emissions mostly comprise dust and other
particulate matter (PM). Depending on the mineral being mined, air emissions can also include heavy metals, carbon
monoxide (CO), sulfur dioxide (SO), nitrogen oxide (NO), hydrogen sulfide (H S), and volatile organic compounds
2 x 2
(VOCs). The severity of impacts from air emissions can depend on the proximity of local communities and workers,
and the sensitivity of local ecosystems.
The extraction and smelting of zinc and other non-ferrous metals produce mercury gases, which lead to severe health
impacts. Mercury (Hg) is frequently used in artisanal and small-scale gold mining activities, sometimes located
adjacent to mining organization’s concessions (see also topic 14.13 Artisanal and small-scale mining). Many gold
and silver operations and refineries use cyanide to extract the mineral from ore, which can under certain conditions
volatilize into hydrogen cyanide (HCN) and cause respiratory hazards for workers.8
Nitrogen oxide emissions from transportation can have negative impacts on ecosystems. They can enter waterways
and oceans, have negative impacts on marine life, and generate ground-level ozone (O ) or smog. Sulfur oxides from
3
burning fossil fuels and smelting mineral ores containing sulfur can lead to acid rain and contribute to ocean
acidification. In addition to negative impacts on human health, acid rain, and smog can degrade water and soil quality,
impairing the functions of natural environments and thereby affecting food chains.
Box 4. Dust and particulate matter
Mining activities release significant amounts of particulate matter (PM), a pollutant mixture of solid particles and
liquid droplets in the air. Dust is the main type of PM from mining, generated during blasting, digging, and hauling,
as well as through conveyors, vehicles, and ore crushing. Dust can also be generated from exposed surfaces such
as dirt roads, pits, waste piles, or dry tailings. Exposure to dust is associated with increased risks of heart and lung
conditions for workers and communities. Dust can also impede the photosynthetic functions of trees and other
plants.
Open-pit mining has a large geographic footprint, making dust management challenging. Organizations utilize dust
control measures to prevent or mitigate dust exposure for workers and communities, including ventilation systems,
dust collectors, irrigation bars, dry fog, water cannons, and bunds of trees. Air quality surveys can be undertaken to
assess the adequacy of these controls.
Reporting on air emissions
If the organization has determined air emissions to be a material topic, this sub-section lists the disclosures
18 GRI 14: Mining Sector 2024
identified as relevant for reporting on the topic by the mining sector.
STANDARD DISCLOSURE SECTOR
STANDARD
REF #
Management of the topic
GRI 3: Material Disclosure 3-3 Management of material topics 14.3.1
Topics 2021
Topic Standard disclosures
GRI 305: Disclosure 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx), and other significant 14.3.2
Emissions 2016 air emissions
Additional sector recommendations
• For each mine site, report significant air emissions9 relevant for the site, in
kilograms or multiples.
References and resources
GRI 305: Emissions 2016 lists authoritative intergovernmental instruments and additional references relevant to
reporting on this topic.
The additional references used in developing this topic, as well as resources that may be helpful for reporting on air
emissions by the mining sector are listed in the Bibliography.
Topic 14.4 Biodiversity
Biodiversity is the variability among living organisms. It includes diversity within species, between species, and of
ecosystems. Biodiversity not only has intrinsic value, but is also vital to human health, food security, economic
prosperity, and mitigation of climate change and adaptation to its impacts. This topic covers impacts on
biodiversity, including on genetic diversity, animal and plant species, and natural ecosystems.
Mining activities typically require large-scale developments that have impacts on biodiversity and ecosystem services.
These impacts can limit the availability and accessibility of natural resources or degrade their quality. Impacts on
biodiversity and ecosystem services may also affect the well-being and livelihoods of local communities and
Indigenous Peoples (see also topic 14.10 Local communities and 14.11 Rights of Indigenous Peoples).
Direct drivers of biodiversity loss influence biodiversity and ecosystem processes, leading to impacts such as
degradation of ecosystems, habitat fragmentation, and animal mortality. Mining activities may contribute to the direct
drivers of biodiversity loss through land and sea use change, for example, in the form of land clearance for mining,
access routes, and waste management facilities; exploitation of natural resources by withdrawing and consuming
water; through the introduction of invasive alien species; and pollution. Sources of air, water, and soil pollution can
include:
• air emissions, including dust and fumes (see also topic 14.3 Air emissions);
• effluent discharges such as riverine tailings disposal (see also topic 14.7 Water and effluents);
• waste storage, disposal, and tailings facility failures (see also topics 14.5 Waste and 14.6 Tailings); and
• light, noise, and vibration.
Different mining methods present distinct impacts on biodiversity. Open-pit mines generate more severe impacts
than underground mines due to the progressive deepening and widening of the mine site, increasing the affected
areas over time. Open-pit mining is a prominent cause of deforestation, with nearly a third of all forests estimated to
be affected by mining projects worldwide [110]. Removing carbon sinks and topsoil can also exacerbate GHG
emissions (see also topic 14.1 GHG emissions), contributing to erosion and desertification. Underground mining, in
turn, can have negative impacts resulting from ground subsidence and groundwater contamination.
Mining activities can have impacts on biodiversity beyond the mine site. These impacts can be more significant when
mining occurs in or near ecologically sensitive areas. For example, mining activities can spread into ecological
corridors and disrupt the functioning of an ecologically sensitive area. Inactive mine pits, underground workings, and
hazardous waste can also cause biodiversity impacts beyond closure (see also topic 14.8 Closure and
6 Land use change refers to a change in the use or management of land and seascapes by humans, which may lead to a change in land cover. It
rehabilitation).
covers changes to terrestrial ecosystems, such as when forests are converted to enable mineral extraction and supporting infrastructure. Guidance
on calculating land use change emissions can be found in the IPCC Good Practice Guidance for Land Use, Land-Use Change and Forestry [59] and
its 2019 updates [60].
19 GRI 14: Mining Sector 2024
The increasing demand for minerals drives mining activities to ecologically sensitive areas, including previously
undeveloped locations and marine ecosystems (see also topic 14.2 Climate adaptation and resilience). While the
potential impacts of deep-sea mining are not fully understood, it is likely to disrupt marine ecosystems, compact or
alter seafloor areas, create sediment plumes, and pose a risk of leaks, accidents, and spills on fragile habitats [105].
To limit and manage impacts on biodiversity, many mining organizations use the mitigation hierarchy tool to help
inform their actions to balance or outweigh negative impacts on biodiversity [103]. The mitigation hierarchy follows
avoidance, minimization, restoration, rehabilitation, and offset. Actions to avoid negative impacts are prioritized, as is
minimizing those impacts when avoidance is not possible. Restoration and rehabilitation measures should be
implemented when negative impacts cannot be avoided or minimized. Offsetting measures may be applied to
residual negative impacts after all other measures have been applied.
Reporting on biodiversity
If the organization has determined biodiversity to be a material topic, this sub-section lists the disclosures identified
as relevant for reporting on the topic by the mining sector.
STANDARD DISCLOSURE SECTOR
STANDARD
REF #
Management of the topic
GRI 3: Material Disclosure 3-3 Management of material topics 14.4.1
Topics 2021
Topic Standard disclosures
GRI 101: Disclosure 101-1 Policies to halt and reverse biodiversity loss 14.4.2
Biodiversity 2024
Disclosure 101-2 Management of biodiversity impacts 14.4.3
Disclosure 101-4 Identification of biodiversity impacts 14.4.4
Disclosure 101-5 Locations with biodiversity impacts 14.4.5
Additional sector recommendations
• Report information on the ecologically sensitive areas for all mine sites.
Disclosure 101-6 Direct drivers of biodiversity loss 14.4.6
Additional sector recommendations
• Report direct drivers of biodiversity loss for all mine sites.
Disclosure 101-7 Changes to the state of biodiversity 14.4.7
Additional sector recommendations
• Report changes in the state of biodiversity for all mine sites.
Disclosure 101-8 Ecosystem services 14.4.8
20 GRI 14: Mining Sector 2024
Additional sector recommendations
• Report information on ecosystem services for all mine sites.
References and resources
GRI 101: Biodiversity 2024 lists authoritative intergovernmental instruments and additional references relevant to
reporting on this topic.
The additional authoritative instruments and references used in developing this topic, as well as resources that may
be helpful for reporting on biodiversity by the mining sector, are listed in the Bibliography.
Topic 14.5 Waste
Waste refers to anything that a holder discards, intends to discard, or is required to discard. When inadequately
managed, waste can have negative impacts on the environment and human health, which can extend beyond the
locations where waste is generated and discarded. This topic covers impacts from waste and the management
of waste.
Mining activities typically generate high volumes of waste, including hazardous waste. The largest waste streams
derive from the extraction or processing of minerals and comprise overburden, rock waste, and tailings. These waste
streams can contain toxic and naturally occurring heavy metals and minerals mobilized by mining, such as asbestos
and antimony, aluminum, arsenic, cadmium, chromium, copper, iron, lead, manganese, mercury, and thallium.
Waste from mining activities may contaminate surface water, groundwater, and seawater (see also topic 14.7 Water
and effluents), as well as food sources. Waste also has negative impacts on human health (see also topic 14.10
Local communities) and animal and plant species (see also topic 14.4 Biodiversity). Land use for waste storage,
along with soil contamination, leads to erosion and loss of productive land, which can further have effects on local
communities’ livelihoods. The waste impacts from mining activities can depend on an organization’s approach to
waste management, regulations, application of technologies, and the availability of recovery and disposal facilities
near mine sites.
Mining activities often require using and storing hazardous materials, such as chemicals, for mineral processing.
These materials can be released into the environment during exploration, extraction, processing, and transport.
Hazardous materials can accumulate and remain in the environment beyond the life of a mine. There are specific
concerns regarding the use of cyanide in processing minerals such as gold and silver, which, when improperly used,
stored, or disposed of, can have negative impacts on human health and the environment (see also topic 14.15 Critical
incident management). Mercury can be produced as a by-product when processing ores, potentially releasing toxic
vapors. While most mining organizations no longer use mercury to extract gold, it is still used by many artisanal and
small-scale operators (see also topic 14.13 Artisanal and small-scale mining).
Overburden from surface mining is usually stored in overburden emplacement facilities or dumps on adjacent land
until the pit is backfilled or the overburden dump is stabilized and revegetated. These dumps require physical and
chemical stabilization to avoid failures, which can have impacts on the environment and the safety of people.
Overburden can also contribute to the formation of highly acidic water rich in heavy metals, known as acid mine
drainage, which can seep into the environment.
Rock waste is usually managed in heaps or disposed of in waste rock dumps or former open-pit operations and can
generate dust (see also topic 14.3 Air emissions). Tailings, a by-product of the processing of minerals, are often
treated and discarded into ponds, filtered, stored in heaps, or disposed of in underground voids. Runoff from tailings
and tailings facility failures can cause widespread environmental contamination and pose risks to the health, safety,
and livelihoods of local communities (see also topic 14.6 Tailings).
The amount of waste produced by mining activities depends on the type of mineral extracted and the ore grade.
Generally, surface mining produces more waste than underground mining due to the possibility of obtaining lower-
grade sediments and rocks from which the mineral is extracted. Waste from mining activities often requires
management beyond the productive phase of a mining operation, including long-term aftercare. Closure can also
yield significant waste, for example, from decommissioned processing plants and other facilities (see also topic 14.8
Closure and rehabilitation).
Typical waste generated by mining operations comprises oils, chemicals, tires, e-waste, used catalysts, solvents,
various industrial byproducts, packaging materials, and construction debris. Mining organizations may also need to
manage substantial domestic waste at mine camps or in dedicated mining towns.
7 The Paris Agreement aims at holding the increase in the global average temperature to well below 2°C above pre-industrial levels and pursuing efforts
to limit the temperature increase to 1.5°C above pre-industrial levels [67]. Scientific evidence released after the Paris Agreement came into force
shows that limiting global warming to 1.5°C ‘would substantially reduce projected losses and damages related to climate change in human systems
and ecosystems compared to higher warming levels’ [64].
21 GRI 14: Mining Sector 2024
Box 5. Circular economy
The mining sector is both a supplier of materials and a significant user of natural resources, materials, and
products. Mining organizations are increasingly incorporating circularity measures throughout the value chain. This
approach can help reduce the requirement for raw materials, minimize waste generation, and repurpose waste for
productive purposes, all contributing to improved resource efficiency. Mining organizations can repurpose tailings
and waste rock for uses such as backfill, landscaping, and construction materials. They can also implement
processes for treating and recycling process water, enabling its reuse in mining operations. Many circularity
measures can be designed in collaboration with and for the benefit of local communities.
Reusing and recycling metals can significantly contribute to the circular economy, as many metals can be melted
and reused infinitely. Recycling metals can also be less energy-intensive than extracting and processing virgin
materials (see also topic 14.1 GHG emissions). Some mining organizations are already transitioning to more
circular business models, expanding their activities from the primary extraction of minerals to metals recycling.
Circularity measures can be reported using GRI 306: Waste 2020, and the use of materials is addressed in GRI
301: Materials 2016.
Reporting on waste
If the organization has determined waste to be a material topic, this sub-section lists the disclosures identified as
relevant for reporting on the topic by the mining sector.
STANDARD DISCLOSURE SECTOR
STANDARD
REF #
Management of the topic
GRI 3: Material Disclosure 3-3 Management of material topics 14.5.1
Topics 2021
Topic Standard disclosures
GRI 306: Waste Disclosure 306-1 Waste generation and significant waste-related impacts 14.5.2
2020
Disclosure 306-2 Management of significant waste-related impacts 14.5.3
Disclosure 306-3 Waste generated 14.5.4
Additional sector recommendations
• When reporting the composition of the waste generated, include a breakdown
of the following waste streams:
- rock waste;
- tailings.10
• Report a breakdown of the total waste generated and the composition of the
waste by mine site.
Disclosure 306-4 Waste diverted from disposal 14.5.5
Additional sector recommendations
• When reporting the composition of the waste diverted from disposal, include a
breakdown of the following waste streams:
- rock waste;
- tailings.
• Report a breakdown of the total waste diverted from disposal and the
composition of the waste by mine site.
Disclosure 306-5 Waste directed to disposal 14.5.6
Additional sector recommendations
• When reporting the composition of the waste directed to disposal, include a
breakdown of the following waste streams:
- rock waste;
8 Cyanide can also be present in tailings managed in tailings storage facilities. Without proper management controls in place, HCN can be volatilized to
the immediate surrounding of the facility.
22 GRI 14: Mining Sector 2024
- tailings.
• Report a breakdown of the total waste directed to disposal and the
composition of the waste by mine site.
References and resources
GRI 306: Waste 2020 lists authoritative intergovernmental instruments and additional references relevant to reporting
on this topic.
The additional authoritative instruments and references used in developing this topic, as well as resources that may
be helpful for reporting on waste by the mining sector are listed in the Bibliography.
Topic 14.6 Tailings
Tailings are a by-product of mining that need management throughout the life of a mine and beyond closure. Poor
design or management of tailings facilities can, at worst, lead to catastrophic failures with lasting impacts on
workers, local communities, and damage to the environment, natural resources, and infrastructure.
Tailings are generated as a by-product of mining and are usually one of the largest waste streams related to mining
operations (see also topic 14.5 Waste). Often contained in the form of liquid slurry, tailings consist of processed
material usually mixed with chemicals left over when separating minerals from rock or soil.
Tailings are often treated and stored in surface tailings facilities, filtered and dry-stacked, or used to fill underground
voids. Surface tailings are contained by dams or disposed into decommissioned open pits and can cover vast areas.
Other disposal methods, such as riverine, lake, and submarine tailings disposal, are still in use by the sector.
However, these methods are widely discouraged due to the significant potential impacts on the environment and
health of local communities from, for example, elevated levels of metals present in tailings (see also topic 14.10
Local communities).
Tailings containing heavy metals, cyanide, chemical-processing agents, or sulfides can pose a health risk when
released into the environment. Catastrophic failures of tailings facilities, including dams, can pose detrimental risks
to the safety and well-being of workers and local communities. At worst, failures can lead to loss of life and the
destruction of whole communities (see also topic 14.15 Critical incident management). Further impacts include
damage to infrastructure, natural resources, and the activities of other sectors, ultimately disrupting lives and
livelihoods. Failures of tailings facilities result from, for example, inadequate water management, overtopping,
foundation or drainage failure, erosion, and earthquakes. Extreme weather events due to climate change pose
additional challenges to the long-term management of tailings (see also topic 14.2 Climate adaptation and
resilience).
Runoff from tailings can contaminate groundwater, surface water, and seawater. Contaminated water sources cause
damage to ecosystems, species, and agricultural operations, affecting local communities’ health and livelihoods
(see also topic 14.7 Water and effluents). Dry tailings can also generate dust (see also topic 14.3 Air emissions).
Inefficient processing of metal ores can spur re-encroachment and re-mining of tailings by artisanal and small-scale
operators, which can mobilize toxic tailings into the environment (see also topic 14.13 Artisanal and small-scale
mining).
Tailings management and storage options depend on and can be altered by various factors. These factors can
include the presence of local communities, distance to areas of biodiversity importance, seismicity, the amount and
seasonal distribution of rainfall, and local topography. Based on its context, each facility requires unique design and
technical considerations to minimize risks to people and the environment throughout the tailings facility lifecycle,
including closure and post-closure (see also topic 14.8 Closure and rehabilitation). The design is expected to be
monitored, evaluated, and updated regularly, according to findings from reviews, risk assessments, and whenever
there are material changes [134].
Organizations utilize site-specific plans on emergency preparedness and response to identify hazards, prepare for
and assess their capacity to respond to emergencies, and anticipate long-term remediation. Alongside regular
testing and updates, the plan requires active involvement with various stakeholders who could be affected, such as
workers and local communities. This includes collaboration with public sector agencies, first responders, local
authorities, and institutions to mitigate the potential repercussions of a failure.
9 Significant air emissions that are relevant for the mining sector include, for example, NO, SO, mercury (Hg), PM10 and PM2.5, and hydrogen sulfide
x x
(HS).
2
23 GRI 14: Mining Sector 2024
Reporting on tailings
If the organization has determined tailings to be a material topic, this sub-section lists the disclosures identified as
relevant for reporting on the topic by the mining sector.
STANDARD DISCLOSURE SECTOR
STANDARD
REF #
Management of the topic
GRI 3: Material Disclosure 3-3 Management of material topics 14.6.1
Topics 2021
Additional sector recommendations
• Report whether the organization complies with or has committed to comply
with a recognized international standard on tailings management, and, if
available, provide a link to the most recent publicly disclosed information.11
Additional sector disclosures
Report the tailings disposal methods used by the organization. 14.6.2
List the organization’s tailings facilities, and report the name, location, and ownership status, including 14.6.3
whether the organization is the operator.
For each tailings facility not confirmed to be in a state of safe closure:12
• describe the tailings facility, including its construction method;13
• report whether the facility is active, inactive, or closed;
• report the maximum permitted storage capacity and the total weight of tailings stored in metric
tons;
• report the Consequence Classification in line with Requirement 4.1 of the GISTM;
• report the frequency of risk assessments and a summary of the most recent risk assessment
findings;
• report the date and material findings of the most recent independent technical review, including the
implementation of mitigation measures and the date of the next review.
References and resources
The authoritative instruments and references used in developing this topic, as well as resources that may be helpful
for reporting on tailings by the mining sector are listed in the Bibliography.
Topic 14.7 Water and effluents
Recognized as a human right, access to fresh water is essential for human life and well-being. The amount of
water withdrawn and consumed by an organization and the quality of its discharges can have impacts on
ecosystems and people. This topic covers impacts related to the withdrawal and consumption of water and the
quality of water discharged.
Mining can have significant impacts on water availability and quality, resulting in long-term consequences on
biodiversity, human health and development, and food security (see also topics 14.4 Biodiversity, 14.10 Local
24 GRI 14: Mining Sector 2024
communities, and 14.11 Rights of Indigenous Peoples). Impacts on water occur throughout the life of a mine and
beyond closure.
Mining organizations use water throughout their operations, including mineral extraction, processing, cooling, dust
suppression, and the transportation of ore and waste in slurries. Mining activities can reduce water availability for
local communities and other water users, potentially affecting people’s right to clean drinking water. In areas where
water is collected manually, reduced access to water can have disproportionate impacts on women and girls, who
are typically responsible for this task [141].
The amount of water needed for mining operations depends on operational efficiency and mining methods. The total
volume of freshwater withdrawn for mining operations can also vary according to an organization’s ability to substitute
freshwater, the quality of water required, characteristics of local water resources, and recycling infrastructure.
Mining organizations can improve local communities’ access to freshwater by bolstering water and sanitation
infrastructure and improving water quality, for example, by treating naturally occurring acid rock drainage. Mining
organizations can also influence hydrology and have impacts on the livelihoods of local communities by altering
groundwater levels, shifting river flow regimes, and using dams for freshwater needs in mining activities. In areas
already facing water stress, mining operations can aggravate the problem by reducing water accessibility for other
users and intensifying competition for water. These impacts can exacerbate tensions between and within other
sectors or local communities, especially in cases where water rights and regulations are poorly managed or
enforced.
The impacts of mining activities on the quality of surface water, groundwater, and seawater can be due to water
discharge and runoff, heavy metal contamination, spills, leaks or leaching of chemicals, and the failure of tailings
facilities (see also topic 14.5 Waste and 14.6 Tailings). Acid mine drainage can be one of the most significant water
impacts from metal mines, occurring when water and oxygen react with rocks containing sulfur-bearing minerals,
forming an acidic runoff. Underground operations might also disrupt or contaminate aquifers.
Contamination risks can be higher when mining occurs in areas with frequent heavy rainfall events, which can cause
flooding and make the containment of effluents more challenging. The level of water treatment and water quality
standards applied to effluent discharges, as well as the sensitivity of the local ecosystem, can affect the impact that
mining organizations have on the receiving waterbody.
Droughts, floods, and other extreme weather events due to climate change pose more frequent challenges to water
availability and quality (see also topic 14.2 Climate adaptation and resilience), requiring collaborative approaches by
the mining sector to prevent or mitigate impacts on local communities [153].
Reporting on water and effluents
If the organization has determined water and effluents to be a material topic, this sub-section lists the disclosures
identified as relevant for reporting on the topic by the mining sector.
STANDARD DISCLOSURE SECTOR
STANDARD
REF #
25 GRI 14: Mining Sector 2024
Management of the topic
GRI 3: Material Disclosure 3-3 Management of material topics 14.7.1
Topics 2021
Additional sector recommendations
• Describe actions taken to prevent or mitigate negative impacts from acid mine
drainage.
Topic Standard disclosures
GRI 303: Water Disclosure 303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource 14.7.2
and Effluents
Disclosure 303-2 Management of water discharge-related impacts 14.7.3
2018
Disclosure 303-3 Water withdrawal 14.7.4
Additional sector recommendations
• Report water withdrawal by mine site.
Disclosure 303-4 Water discharge 14.7.5
Additional sector recommendations
• Report water discharge by mine site.
Disclosure 303-5 Water consumption 14.7.6
Additional sector recommendations
• Report water consumption by mine site.
References and resources
GRI 303: Water and Effluents 2018 lists authoritative intergovernmental instruments and additional references
relevant to reporting on this topic.
The additional authoritative instruments and references used in developing this topic, as well as resources that may
be helpful for reporting on water and effluents by the mining sector are listed in the Bibliography.
Topic 14.8 Closure and rehabilitation
At the end of commercial use, organizations are expected to close assets and facilities and rehabilitate
operational sites. Impacts can occur during and after closure. This topic covers an organization’s approach to
closure and rehabilitation, including how the organization considers the impacts on the environment, local
communities, and workers.
The aim of closure is to return land disturbed by mining to a physically, biologically, and chemically stable condition.
When implemented successfully, it enables ecosystem restoration, minimizes long-term pollution, protects local
water supplies, ensures public safety, and provides communities with productive land wherever possible. This
process is expected to result in a healthy and functioning ecosystem that is compatible with planned post-mining land
use, compliant with regulatory requirements, and considerate of the needs and livelihoods of local stakeholders.
Closure planning should start at the project design phase and be updated regularly throughout the mine lifecycle.
This can help mitigate impacts on the environment and people while integrating opportunities for reclamation
concurrent with mining operations.
When not managed adequately, the closure of a mine can result in various environmental impacts, including the
contamination of surface water and groundwater, soil contamination from overburden heaps, changes to landforms,
and disturbance to biodiversity (see also topics 14.4 Biodiversity, 14.5 Waste, and 14.7 Water and effluents). The
presence of, or contamination by, hazardous materials can result in long-lasting health and safety impacts on people
(see also topic 14.10 Local communities). Failure to rehabilitate sites can also render land unsuitable for other
productive purposes, such as agriculture, leading to the potential loss of livelihoods.
Closure activities can include:
• stabilization of open-pit or underground workings to prevent subsidence and erosion of mine-pit benches;
26 GRI 14: Mining Sector 2024
• decommissioning of processing facilities, equipment, and other infrastructure;
• removal of workers’ facilities and camps;
• land reclamation and rehabilitation, including management of topsoil, waste rock stockpiles, and overburden
heaps to control erosion and land degradation, and foster ecosystem restoration;
• closing and sealing waste, including tailings, facilities (see also topic 14.6 Tailings);
• post-closure environmental and socioeconomic monitoring to ensure that post-closure objectives are being
achieved; and
• remediation actions identified through monitoring activities.
Mining organizations can implement closure and rehabilitation activities progressively during the operating life of the
mine by, for example, backfilling and revegetating unused areas as operations move to other zones.
Although closure and rehabilitation may offer new employment opportunities, cessation of mining operations also
leads to unemployment when workers are no longer essential. When a mine closes, it can also result in job losses
for the mine's suppliers. In locations where the mine has been the primary economic driver by providing employment,
income, tax revenue, community development, and other benefits, closure can leave local communities to face
economic downturns and social disruption.
The impacts of mine closure can be exacerbated if there is insufficient notice or inadequate planning for economic
revitalization and social transition. Closed or abandoned mine sites can leave a long-lasting legacy of environmental
issues and financial burdens for communities and governments, unless there are assigned responsible parties or
allocated funds to cover the costs of mine closure and post-closure activities (see also topic 14.9 Economic impacts).
Mining organizations can collaborate with local communities, governments, unions, and workers to mitigate negative
impacts and work towards a sustainable post-mining economy. This can be done by, for example, reskilling and
retraining workers, offering worker transfer programs and relocation assistance programs (see also topic 14.17
Employment practices), and consulting communities, including women, on closure plans (see also topic 14.10 Local
communities). Closure planning often starts in the early phases of a mine’s life cycle, becoming more detailed and
responsive as the closure date approaches.
Many jurisdictions require organizations to make financial provisions, or assurances, for long-term costs associated
with mine closure and rehabilitation when developing closure plans. These assurances are intended to cover the
total estimated cost of closure activities and post-closure monitoring to account for social and environmental legacy
impacts that can occur after closure [157].
Assurances can be in the form of various financial instruments, such as cash deposits, bank guarantees, surety
bonds, trust funds, or other third-party-held assets, all designed to ensure the fulfillment of closure obligations.
Organizations can conduct periodic reviews and update costs to account for operational changes during the life of a
mine and their effect on the cost of closure. However, closure costs are often misunderstood, poorly regulated, or
underestimated, resulting in insufficient financial assurances to cover the actual closure costs. Providing
transparency over these provisions can improve the relationship between mining organizations and stakeholders,
including governments.
Reporting on closure and rehabilitation
If the organization has determined closure and rehabilitation to be a material topic, this sub-section lists the
disclosures identified as relevant for reporting on the topic by the mining sector.
STANDARD DISCLOSURE SECTOR
STANDARD
REF #
Management of the topic
GRI 3: Material Disclosure 3-3 Management of material topics 14.8.1
Topics 2021
Additional sector recommendations
• Describe how engagement with workers, suppliers, local communities, and
other relevant stakeholders has informed closure planning and
implementation, including post-mining land use.
Topic Standard disclosures
GRI 402: Disclosure 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes 14.8.2
27 GRI 14: Mining Sector 2024
Labor/Management
Relations 2016
GRI 404: Training Disclosure 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition 14.8.3
and Education assistance programs
2016
Additional sector disclosures
For each mine site, report whether it: 14.8.4
• has a closure and rehabilitation plan in place;
• is undergoing closure and rehabilitation activities;
• has been closed and rehabilitated.
For each closure and rehabilitation plan: 14.8.5
• report whether the plan has been approved by relevant authorities;
• report the dates of the most recent and next reviews of the plan.
For each mine site, report in hectares: 14.8.6
• total land disturbed and not yet rehabilitated;
• total land disturbed and rehabilitated (including progressively rehabilitated, if applicable).
For each mine site, report the estimated life of the mine (LOM).14 14.8.7
For financial provisions made by the organization for closure and rehabilitation, including 14.8.8
environmental and socioeconomic post-closure monitoring and aftercare for mine sites, report:
• the total estimated closure cost (not discounted), whether the financial provision covers the full
amount of the current estimated closure cost, and whether the financial provision made is in line
with the applicable regulatory requirements, by mine site;
• the methodology used to calculate the estimated closure cost;
• financial instruments used or developed to guarantee adequate financial provisions for closure
and rehabilitation.15
Describe non-financial provisions made by the organization to manage the local community's 14.8.9
socioeconomic transition to a sustainable post-mining economy, including collaborative efforts,
projects, and programs.
References and resources
GRI 402: Labor/Management Relations 2016 and GRI 404: Training and Education 2016 list authoritative
intergovernmental instruments relevant to reporting on this topic.
The additional references used in developing this topic, as well as resources that may be helpful for reporting on
closure and rehabilitation by the mining sector are listed in the Bibliography.
Topic 14.9 Economic impacts
An organization’s impacts on the economy refers to how the value it generates affects economic systems, for
example, as a result of its procurement practices and employment of workers. Infrastructure investments and
services supported by an organization can also have impacts on a community’s well-being and long-term
development. This topic covers economic impacts at local, national, and global levels.
Mining activities can be an important source of investment and income for local communities, countries, and regions.
Mineral extraction offers considerable opportunities for producing countries and their communities to gain lasting
economic benefits, which, if well managed, can transform national economies, reduce poverty and inequality, and
improve people’s well-being. Economic contributions can manifest locally through procurement spending, capacity
building, or employment provision, and at national, subnational, or regional levels through taxes and royalties (see
10 The additional sector recommendations under Disclosures 306-3, 306-4, and 306-5 ask to report a breakdown of total weight of tailings produced. The
management of tailings facilities is reported in topic 14.6 Tailings.
28 GRI 14: Mining Sector 2024
also topic 14.23 Payments to governments).
Impacts vary according to the scale and duration of operations, interactions with other economic activities, the
effectiveness of resource governance by local and national governments, and local procurement and employment
practices used by the organization. At a global scale, the sector’s contributions are prevalent through, for example, the
provision of minerals for the low-carbon transition, essential infrastructure and buildings, and food production.
The economic impacts of mining vary depending on the specific phase of the mining project. During mine
development, infrastructure investments are at their peak, procurement of goods and services are high, and many
workers are needed. When the mine is in operation, economic impacts are mainly generated through procurement
spending, employment, community investments, taxes, and other payments to governments. Mine closure and post-
mining phases require economic restructuring, characterized by out-migration, reduced government revenues, and a
limited need for infrastructure, goods, and services.
Through local procurement, mining organizations can foster employment and raise demand for goods and services.
Workers of mining organizations and their suppliers also drive local economic growth by spending their earnings.
Long-lasting positive impacts can be generated by capacity building of suppliers, along with training and skill transfer
to the community. Mine construction and operation can involve the development of infrastructure, such as roads,
railways, and other transport networks, that local communities can use. Production linkages with other sectors can
also drive economic diversification and community development.
The extent to which local communities benefit from mining activities depends on their existing development and
industrialization levels, their capacity to provide qualified workers to meet new employment opportunities, and the
commitment of organizations in the sector to train local workers. The net employment impact of mining also depends
on how existing jobs in other sectors are affected and the organization's employment practices (see also topic 14.17
Employment practices). For example, using a fly-in fly-out work arrangement to supply workers can reduce the
employment opportunities available to local communities, detracting from the potential economic benefits at the local
level. In places where women are traditionally responsible for meeting the subsistence needs of families and jobs
are mostly occupied by men, this can result in increased domestic and community-based workload for women [164].
These impacts can exacerbate economic disparities and gender inequalities, especially if benefit-sharing from
mining is separated from the local context and community needs (see also topic 14.10 Local communities).
Changes in technology in industrial-scale mining, such as the increased use of automation and robotics, can affect
economic impacts and benefit sharing. While these changes can introduce new skills and increase work
opportunities for women and other underrepresented groups, they can also reduce the number of workers needed for
mining activities.
Additionally, a poorly planned or executed mine closure process can generate legacy impacts with economic
consequences for communities and governments (see also topic 14.8 Closure and rehabilitation).
Lasting negative impacts can be mitigated at the local level in consultation with the community. This can be achieved
by incorporating inclusive development, benefit-sharing mechanisms, and impact-driven community development
programs aimed at the structural transformation of local economies. Mining organizations can also promote
economic inclusion by recruiting or using suppliers that recruit workers from less represented or marginalized
groups, including women-owned enterprises (see also topic 14.21 Non-discrimination and equal opportunity).
Extending skills development to workers who are not employees and the local community can also contribute to
positive impacts and promote a just transition after a mine is closed.
Reporting on economic impacts
If the organization has determined economic impacts to be a material topic, this sub-section lists the disclosures
identified as relevant for reporting on the topic by the mining sector.
STANDARD DISCLOSURE SECTOR
STANDARD
REF #
Management of the topic
GRI 3: Material Disclosure 3-3 Management of material topics 14.9.1
29 GRI 14: Mining Sector 2024
Topics 2021
Additional sector recommendations
• Describe the approach to providing employment, procurement, and training
opportunities to local communities.
Topic Standard disclosures
GRI 201: Disclosure 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 14.9.2
Economic
Performance
Additional sector recommendations
2016 • Report community investments by mine site.
GRI 203: Indirect Disclosure 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported 14.9.3
Economic
Impacts 2016
Additional sector recommendations
• Report whether a community needs assessment was conducted to determine
the need for infrastructure and services, and how the assessment informed
the infrastructure investments and services supported.
Disclosure 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts 14.9.4
Additional sector recommendations
• Report the number, total spend, and description of education and skills
programs deployed for workers who are not employees.
GRI 204: Disclosure 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers 14.9.5
Procurement
Practices 2016
Additional sector recommendations
• Report the percentage of the organization’s procurement budget spent on local
suppliers by mine site.
Additional sector disclosures
Report the percentage of workers hired from the local community at the mine-site level, broken down 14.9.6
by gender, and the organization's definition used for ‘local community’.16
References and resources
GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016 lists authoritative intergovernmental instruments and additional references
relevant to reporting on this topic.
The additional authoritative instruments and references used in developing this topic, as well as resources that may
be helpful for reporting on economic impacts by the mining sector are listed in the Bibliography.
Topic 14.10 Local communities
Local communities comprise individuals living or working in areas that are affected or that could be affected by
an organization’s activities. An organization is expected to conduct community engagement to understand the
vulnerabilities and priorities of local communities and how they may be affected by the organization’s activities.
This topic covers socioeconomic, cultural, health, and human rights impacts on local communities.
Mining activities can create social and economic benefits for local communities through local procurement and
employment, taxes and other payments to governments, infrastructure investments and services supported, and
community development programs (see also topics 14.9 Economic impacts and 14.23 Payments to governments).
However, mining activities can also trigger negative socioeconomic, cultural, health, and human rights impacts on
communities near mine sites, including Indigenous Peoples, artisanal and small-scale miners, and other vulnerable
groups, throughout the life of a mine and beyond closure (see also topics 14.11 Rights of Indigenous Peoples and
1114 R.1e3co Agnritziesda innatelr naantiodn aslm staanlld-asrdcsa ilnec lumdein thine gG)l.o bal Industry Standard on Tailings Management (GISTM) and the Tailings Management Protocol by
Towards Sustainable Mining (TSM). In case the organization complies with the GISTM, it provides a link to the most recent information disclosed in line
Newgitha tGivISeT Mim Pprianccitpsle c1a5.n I nr ecassuel tth fer oormga nlaiznadtio nu scoem rpeliqesu wiriethm aneonthtser trhecaotg lnimizeidt itnhteer naactiocneasl sstiabnidliatyrd a(en.gd. , aTvaialinilgasb Milaitnya goefm leannt Pdr oatoncdol nbya TtuSrMa)l,
reist opruorvcideess, a l elinakd tion pgu btolic trheepo lrotinsgs oof fc otrmapdliiatniocen ,r ecsuullttsu.re, or cultural identity (see also topic 14.12 Land and resource rights).
12 State of safe closure is defined by the GISTM as a closed tailings facility confirmed to not pose ongoing material risks to people or the environment.
Mining activities can damage tangible cultural heritage, including sites and artifacts, as well as intangible forms of
For further guidance, including definitions for terms used in additional sector disclosure 14.6.3, see the GISTM [134].
13 Construction method should be reported as ‘downstream’, ‘upstream’, or ‘centerline’. For further guidance, see the definitions provided by the
International Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM) [132].
30 GRI 14: Mining Sector 2024
culture, such as lifestyles and knowledge. Other negative impacts on community health, safety, and well-being can be
caused by:
• exposure to pollution, hazardous substances, and dust (see also topic 14.3 Air emissions);
• contamination of groundwater and surface water (see also topic 14.7 Water and effluents);
• traffic to and from the mine site;
• increased levels of light, noise, and vibration resulting from, for example, blasting and transportation;
• degradation of ecosystem services;
• reduced fishing and agricultural yields; and
• critical incidents such as explosions, fires, mine collapses, spills, and tailings facility failures (see also topic
14.15 Critical incident management).
Women can be disproportionately affected by the negative environmental impacts of mining. For example, the work to
collect water and food in many rural communities is most often carried out by women and girls. Women are also
frequently excluded from formal community consultations [179].
The influx of workers, job seekers, or others aiming to benefit from the economic activity of a mine can generate social
disruption and greater economic inequalities within the local community. This influx can place local services and
resources under pressure, induce inflation, and raise housing costs. There can also be an increase in substance
abuse, gambling, and prostitution, as well as communicable diseases, which may disrupt the social cohesion of a
community. These changes can have disproportionate impacts on vulnerable groups in society, such as the elderly,
children, and young people. Women, in particular, are more affected due to the potential rise in sexual violence and
trafficking resulting from the gender imbalance of predominantly male workers. Documented cases also show the
presence of domestic and gender-based violence on mine sites and in mining-adjacent communities [185].
Mining can also trigger social conflicts, resulting in human rights impacts. When the interests of the mining
organization are at odds with the interests of the local community, disagreements or grievances can escalate (see
also topic 14.14 Security practices). Conflict can occur, for example, due to negative environmental impacts,
inadequate engagement with the local community, uneven distribution of economic benefits, or disputes over land
use and natural resources during mining and post-closure.
Mining organizations can assess impacts on communities throughout the life of a mine by undertaking environmental
and social impact assessments. This can help ensure that negative impacts are identified, prevented where
possible, addressed, and remedied on time. Organizations are expected to provide benefits that contribute to long-
term development for local communities to balance the negative impacts of mining. For example, community
development agreements often define mining organizations' rights and responsibilities to deliver socio-economic
benefits to local communities. These agreements may include obligations related to infrastructure development, land
and water use, collaboration with artisanal and small-scale miners, and local procurement and employment [187]. In
some cases, these agreements can be confidential.
Meaningful engagement with local communities involves two-way communication that is transparent, proactive,
responsive, and ongoing. This approach can help alleviate tensions, improve community relations, and facilitate
transparent decision-making processes, which are essential for obtaining and retaining a social license to operate.
Meaningful engagement also entails consultation with local communities before making decisions,
including by acknowledging the power imbalance of the mining organization with local communities and providing
accessible, culturally appropriate, and gender-responsive information in the local language [173]. By including the
voices of women, ethnic minorities, and other underrepresented groups in consultations, mining organizations can
actively involve them community engagement processes. This ensures that the information gathered reflects local
priorities and promotes the equitable distribution of benefits.
Organizations further address their negative impacts by establishing or participating in grievance mechanisms and
other remediation processes tailored to community needs.
Reporting on local communities
If the organization has determined local communities to be a material topic, this sub-section lists the disclosures
identified as relevant for reporting on the topic by the mining sector.
STANDARD DISCLOSURE SECTOR
STANDARD
REF #
31 GRI 14: Mining Sector 2024
Management of the topic
GRI 3: Material Disclosure 3-3 Management of material topics 14.10.1
Topics 2021
Additional sector recommendations
• Describe the approach to identifying stakeholders, including vulnerable
groups, within local communities.
• Describe the approach to engaging with local communities at each phase of
the life of the mine, including:
- how the organization seeks to ensure meaningful engagement;
- how the organization supports safe and equitable gender participation.
• Describe the approach to developing and implementing community
development programs, including how engagement with local stakeholders,
impact assessments, and community needs assessments have informed the
programs.
Topic Standard disclosures
GRI 413: Local Disclosure 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact 14.10.2
Communities assessments, and development programs
2016
Additional sector recommendations
• Report any formal community development agreements made by the
organization by mine site.
Disclosure 413-2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts 14.10.3
on local communities
Additional sector recommendations
• For each mine site, describe impacts on the health and safety of local
communities.
Additional sector disclosures
For each mine site, report: 14.10.4
• the number and types of grievances from local communities during the reporting period;
• the percentage of grievances that were addressed and resolved during the reporting period;
• the percentage of grievances resolved through remediation during the reporting period.
References and resources
GRI 413: Local Communities 2016 lists authoritative intergovernmental instruments and additional references
relevant to reporting on this topic.
The additional authoritative instruments and references used in developing this topic, as well as resources that may
be helpful for reporting on local communities by the mining sector are listed in the Bibliography.
Topic 14.11 Rights of Indigenous Peoples
Indigenous Peoples are at higher risk of experiencing negative impacts more severely as a result of an
organization’s activities. Indigenous Peoples have both collective and individual rights, as set out in the United
Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples and other authoritative international human rights
instruments. This topic covers impacts on the rights of Indigenous Peoples.
Mining activities can present social and economic opportunities and benefits for Indigenous Peoples through
financial payments, employment, procurement, training, and community development programs (see also topic 14.9
Economic impacts). However, they can also disrupt Indigenous Peoples’ ties to their lands or natural environments,
compromise their rights and well-being, and cause displacement (see also topic 14.12 Land and resource rights).
Mining can have impacts on the availability and accessibility of water, which is a key concern for many Indigenous
Peoples. Mining activities can further damage cultural heritage consisting of tangible sites and artifacts, along with
32 GRI 14: Mining Sector 2024
intangible forms of culture such as traditional lifestyles and cultural knowledge.
An influx of workers from other areas can result in discrimination toward Indigenous Peoples regarding access to
jobs and opportunities. It can further undermine social cohesion, well-being, and safety. Indigenous women can be
more exposed to risks of prostitution, forced labor, violence, and communicable diseases than Indigenous men (see
also topic 14.10 Local communities).
Indigenous Peoples’ collective and individual rights are recognized in authoritative intergovernmental instruments.
Indigenous Peoples often have a special legal status in national legislation and can be customary or legal owners of
lands to which organizations in the mining sector are granted use rights by governments. Organizations are expected
to obtain free, prior, and informed consent (FPIC) before and throughout their operations on decisions that could have
impacts on land or resources that Indigenous Peoples use or own. The United Nations Declaration on the Rights of
Indigenous Peoples recognizes their right to grant or withhold consent at any stage of a project that may affect them or
their territories and to negotiate improved conditions [197]. Therefore, mining organizations are responsible for
respecting Indigenous Peoples' rights, independent of governments’ abilities or willingness to fulfill their own human
rights obligation.
Organizations in the sector continue to have disputes and conflicts with Indigenous Peoples over land ownership and
rights. Documented cases show an absence of good faith consultations and undue pressure on Indigenous Peoples
to accept projects, with opposition to such projects sometimes leading to violence or death [201]. Mining
organizations can foster positive relations with Indigenous Peoples through consent-based consultation, mutually
beneficial agreements, and transparent engagement practices. Direct benefits, including financial payments, are
often registered through benefit-sharing agreements to formalize expectations on both sides. Mining organizations
can utilize grievance mechanisms, tailored to community needs, to address concerns and provide remedy.
Reporting on rights of Indigenous Peoples
If the organization has determined rights of Indigenous Peoples to be a material topic, this sub-section lists the
disclosures identified as relevant for reporting on the topic by the mining sector.
STANDARD DISCLOSURE SECTOR
STANDARD
REF #
Management of the topic
GRI 3: Material Disclosure 3-3 Management of material topics 14.11.1
Topics 2021
Additional sector recommendations
• Describe the approach to identifying Indigenous Peoples who are or could be
affected by the organization’s activities.
• Describe the approach to engaging with Indigenous Peoples, including:
- how the organization seeks to ensure meaningful engagement;
- how the organization supports safe and equitable gender participation.
• Describe the policies or commitments, and actions taken to respect
Indigenous Peoples’ cultural heritage.
• Describe the community development programs in place that are intended to
enhance positive impacts for Indigenous Peoples.
Topic Standard disclosures
GRI 411: Rights Disclosure 411-1 Incidents of violations involving rights of Indigenous Peoples 14.11.2
of Indigenous
Peoples 2016
Additional sector recommendations
• Describe the identified incidents of violations involving the rights of Indigenous
Peoples.
Additional sector disclosures
List the locations of operations and proven reserves where Indigenous Peoples are present and are 14.11.3
or may be affected by the activities of the organization.
33 GRI 14: Mining Sector 2024
Report whether the organization has been involved in a process of seeking free, prior, and informed 14.11.4
consent (FPIC) from Indigenous Peoples for any of the organization’s activities and, if so, report for
each case:
• whether the process has been mutually accepted by the organization and the affected Indigenous
Peoples;
• whether an agreement has been reached, and if so, if the agreement is publicly available.
References and resources
GRI 411: Rights of Indigenous Peoples 2016 lists authoritative intergovernmental instruments and additional
references relevant to reporting on this topic.
The additional authoritative instruments and references used in developing this topic, as well as resources that may
be helpful for reporting on rights of Indigenous Peoples by the mining sector are listed in the Bibliography.
Topic 14.12 Land and resource rights
Land and resource rights encompass the rights to use, manage and control land, fisheries, forests, and other
natural resources. An organization’s impacts on the availability and accessibility of these can affect local
communities and other users. This topic covers impacts from an organization’s use of land and natural
resources on human rights and tenure rights, including from resettlement of local communities.
Mining activities require large areas of land for prospecting, exploration, extraction, waste storage, processing,
transportation, and distribution. When adjacent to local communities, these activities sometimes restrict access to
culturally significant locations and natural resources, lead to involuntary resettlement, and disrupt traditional
livelihoods such as agriculture and artisanal mining (see also topic 14.10 Local communities). The impacts on land
and resource rights can lead to unemployment, marginalization, food insecurity, increased health risks, and
impoverishment. Impacts derived from land use can vary according to the extraction and transportation method, the
size and location of the mine, and the processing required. For example, displacement is more often associated with
surface mining. In many cases, vulnerable groups are more severely affected, including women, who are often
excluded as legal titleholders (see also topic 14.11 Rights of Indigenous Peoples).
Unclear rules regarding tenure rights that regulate access, use, and control of land can lead to disputes, social and
economic tensions, and conflict. This can be exacerbated by insufficient consultation with and compensation to
affected communities. For example, in areas where formal statutory tenure laws overlap or go against traditional
customary rules, conflict can be stoked when there is a lack of clarity or unmet expectations between communities
and mining organizations. These disputes can be about compensation, access, or documentation for customary
titleholders who might depend on their land for food, culture, and livelihood.
Involuntary resettlement of local communities, including both physical displacement (e.g., relocation or shelter loss)
and economic displacement (e.g., loss of access to assets), can result in the loss of social networks, cultural
identities, and physical assets, such as schools, places of worship, and cemeteries. Organizations can remediate
negative impacts from resettlement by compensating local communities at full replacement cost for land and other
assets lost. This can be done by replacing land when possible, providing access to alternative natural resources, or
offering monetary compensation for lost assets.
The impacts of resettlement on livelihoods can be more severe for communities engaged in artisanal and small-
scale mining due to the often-informal nature of these activities. In the absence of recognized rights to land and
minerals, these communities may not be compensated (see also topic 14.13 Artisanal and small-scale mining). In
some cases, community members resisting resettlement may face threats and intimidation, as well as violent,
repressive, or life-threatening removal from lands.
Addressing impacts related to land and resource rights and resettlement requires extensive and ongoing
assessment of impacts. This can ensure that impacts are identified and prevented, for example, by avoiding
involuntary resettlement where feasible. Measures such as fair compensation and improvements to living conditions
can help mitigate impacts and provide a timely remedy. Ongoing, inclusive, and culturally appropriate engagement
with local communities throughout the life of a mine and beyond closure, for example, through consultations and
public hearing processes, is essential to ensure the viability and continuity of community livelihoods. This includes
ensuring that women and other groups more vulnerable to impacts are sufficiently represented. Organizations can
also seek free, prior, and informed consent when mining activities have impacts on land or resources that local
34 GRI 14: Mining Sector 2024
communities use or own.
Reporting on land and resource rights
If the organization has determined land and resource rights to be a material topic, this sub-section lists the
disclosures identified as relevant for reporting on the topic by the mining sector.
STANDARD DISCLOSURE SECTOR
STANDARD
REF #
Management of the topic
GRI 3: Material Disclosure 3-3 Management of material topics 14.12.1
Topics 2021
Additional sector recommendations
• Describe the approach to engaging with stakeholders whose rights to land
and resources are or could be affected by the organization’s activities,
including:
- how the organization seeks to ensure meaningful engagement;
- how the organization supports safe and equitable gender participation.
• Describe the policies, commitments, and plans providing remediation to local
communities or individuals subject to involuntary resettlement, and the
process for establishing compensation for loss of assets, or other assistance
to improve or restore standards of living or livelihoods.
• Describe the procedures in place to monitor and evaluate the effectiveness of
the actions taken to remediate negative impacts from involuntary resettlement
and the corrective actions taken where necessary.17
Additional sector disclosures
List the mine sites where involuntary resettlement is planned, ongoing, or has taken place. 14.12.2
For each mine site listed:
• report the number of persons who have been or will be displaced, and a breakdown by gender;
• describe how peoples’ livelihoods and human rights are or could be affected and restored.
List the locations of operations where conflicts or violations of land and resource rights (including 14.12.3
customary, collective, and informal tenure rights) occurred, and describe the incidents and the
stakeholders whose rights are or could be affected.
References and resources
The authoritative instruments and references used in developing this topic, as well as resources that may be helpful
for reporting on land and resource rights by the mining sector are listed in the Bibliography.
Topic 14.13 Artisanal and small-scale mining
Artisanal and small-scale mining (ASM) refers to mining by individuals, families, or cooperatives with minimal or
no mechanization and often operating informally. ASM occurs throughout the world, but is particularly
widespread in developing countries where it is an important source of income and livelihood. This topic covers
impacts of mining organizations on ASM operators, and impacts mining organizations may be involved with
through their business relationships, interactions, or co-location with ASM.
An estimated 45 million people around the world are engaged in artisanal and small-scale mining (ASM). In some
regions, the lack of alternative economic opportunities can make ASM an important source of livelihood and
employment for local communities, including for women who comprise about 30% of ASM operators [228]. ASM
activities can be formal or informal, and are often associated with simplified forms of mining, limited access to
t1e4c Thhneo dleofignyiti,o na nofd l ifhei gofh m lianeb o(LrO iMnt)e unsesdit yby. AtheS oMrg acnaizna tiinocn lfuodr teh isin addidvitiidounaal ls oecpteorr aditsocrloss,u frae mshioliuelds ,b ea nthde scaomoep aesr athteiv deesfi niintiovno ulvsiendg i nu ipts to
hucnodnsroeldidsa teodr feinvaencnia tl hsotautesmaenndtss o or ef qmuiivnaelernst .d Mociunminengt so.rganizations can interact with ASM at the beginning of mining
15 For further guidance, including definitions for terms used in the additional sector disclosure, see International Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM),
Financial concepts for mine closure, 2019 [160]; and Intergovernmental Forum on Mining, Minerals, Metals and Sustainable Development (IGF), Global
Review: Financial assurance governance for the post-mining transition, 2021 [157].
35 GRI 14: Mining Sector 2024
projects when mineral deposits are exposed and ASM operators migrate to mine sites. ASM might also be present
before mining organizations commence exploration and extraction.
In some countries, ASM is recognized as a legal and, therefore, formal activity. In contexts where ASM has no legal
status, it is regarded as informal. ASM activities can nevertheless be considered legitimate when ASM operators
show good faith efforts to operate within the applicable legal framework and engage in formalization opportunities
where available. Whether formal or informal, ASM is not considered legitimate when it is characterized by human
rights abuses, illicit financial flows, or when it contributes to conflict [232].
When ASM operates without legal status, interactions and co-location with mining organizations can lead to conflicts
over land, access and control of mineral deposits, as well as the right to mine (see also topic 14.12 Land and
resource rights). Mining organizations may have official mining rights granted by regulatory authorities. However,
informal ASM activities may have the support of the local community in accordance with social and cultural traditions
or informal customs developed over time (see also topic 14.10 Local communities). In such cases, an organization’s
use of security personnel to protect assets can lead to human rights violations (see also topic 14.14 Security
practices) or exacerbate conflict (see also topic 14.25 Conflict-affected and high-risk areas).
The proximity of mining organizations to informal ASM activities can hinder the effectiveness of mitigation strategies
for managing an organization’s environmental impacts. For example, efforts to maintain air or water quality may be
impeded due to the use of chemicals or heavy metals in ASM. Areas of high biodiversity value that the mining
organization has an obligation to protect may also be damaged due to uncontrolled access by ASM operators.
Mining organizations can become involved with negative impacts from ASM when purchasing minerals extracted by
ASM operators. These impacts include lower levels of occupational health and safety and the use of mercury,
particularly in ASM gold extraction, which is a major concern for the health of workers, local communities, and the
environment. ASM can also involve the use of child labor, as children are often engaged in ASM activities to
supplement family income (see also topic 14.18 Child labor). Mining organizations can also be involved with
occurrences of forced labor through their interaction with ASM.
Mining organizations can undertake community engagement and consultation with ASM operators to build
constructive relationships. These would start at the exploration phase to regularly identify, prevent, and mitigate the
impacts from interactions and co-location with ASM and those linked by their business relationships, such as security
providers. Mining organizations can support the professionalization of informal yet legitimate ASM operators by
allocating areas to mine and providing capacity building, resources, and technical assistance. Mining organizations
can also invest in local procurement initiatives, foster collaboration through buy-back arrangements, and support
formalization through multi-stakeholder collaboration with governments and other relevant parties at regional and
national levels.
Reporting on artisanal and small-scale mining
If the organization has determined artisanal and small-scale mining to be a material topic, this sub-section lists the
disclosures identified as relevant for reporting on the topic by the mining sector.
STANDARD DISCLOSURE SECTOR
STANDARD
REF #
Management of the topic
GRI 3: Material Disclosure 3-3 Management of material topics 14.13.1
Topics 2021
Additional sector recommendations
• Describe the approach to engaging with ASM operators, and the actions taken
by the organization to support ASM formalization and professionalization
efforts.
• Describe the programs in place to enhance positive impacts or mitigate
negative impacts involving ASM, including:
- whether and how the programs incorporate gender considerations,
- how engagement with local authorities and communities has informed the
programs.
• If sourcing from artisanal and small-scale mining, describe the policies in
place and the process used to identify and assess actual and potential
negative impacts.
36 GRI 14: Mining Sector 2024
negative impacts.
Additional sector disclosures
List the mine sites where ASM occurs on or in close proximity to the site. 14.13.2
Report the total number and nature of incidents involving ASM and actions taken to address them.18 14.13.3
References and resources
The authoritative instruments and references used in developing this topic, as well as resources that may be helpful
for reporting on artisanal and small-scale mining by the mining sector are listed in the Bibliography.
Topic 14.14 Security practices
The use of security personnel can play an essential role in allowing an organization to operate safely and
productively, but also has the potential to lead to human rights violations. This topic covers impacts as a result of
the use or presence of security personnel.
Many organizations in the mining sector use security personnel to protect the organizations’ assets or ensure
workers’ safety and security. Organizations can employ their own personnel but more commonly use third-party
security providers, such as private security firms, or engage in arrangements with host governments to provide public
security. Security personnel can operate on the organization’s site or along the supply chain and may be present in
mineral processing, transport, storage, or at the point of sale.
Documented cases show human rights violations by security personnel during encounters with local communities or
activists, ranging from threats and intimidation to violence. Women are more vulnerable to harassment and sexual
and gender-based violence by security personnel.
While security personnel are deployed across geographies, the risk of human rights violations and breaches of
international humanitarian law is heightened in areas affected by conflict, where security providers may be connected
to military or paramilitary groups (see also topic 14.25 Conflict and high-risk areas). Risks can also be heightened
where mining occurs adjacent to Indigenous Peoples and other vulnerable groups (see also topic 14.11 Rights of
Indigenous Peoples). Artisanal and small-scale mining (ASM) operators can face higher risks of human rights
violations, particularly when concerns exist around ASM activities on mining organizations' concessions (see also
topic 14.13 Artisanal and small-scale mining).
Actions taken by security personnel against local community members and human rights defenders can violate the
rights to freedom of assembly and speech, and can lead to injuries and loss of life. Incidents of human rights
violations associated with the mining sector can be linked to, for example, protest activities by land and environmental
defenders against mining or when communities protect their land and resources from mining activities (see also
topic 14.12 Land and resource rights) [245]. Human rights defenders are accorded particular rights and protections
as outlined in the United Nations Declaration on Human Rights Defenders and other international agreements, but
frequently suffer abuses and harassment. Women human rights defenders are often more severely affected.
Organizations in the sector are responsible for ensuring that security practices are consistent with respect to human
rights and international humanitarian law [247]. This involves assessing security-related impacts, identifying
situations where impacts on human rights are likely to occur, and working with security personnel to ensure that
human rights are respected. Impacts can also be mitigated more broadly by a better understanding of the local
context, such as the presence of vulnerable groups and the gender composition of the local community.
37 GRI 14: Mining Sector 2024
Reporting on security practices
If the organization has determined security practices to be a material topic, this sub-section lists the disclosures
identified as relevant for reporting on the topic by the mining sector.
STANDARD DISCLOSURE SECTOR
STANDARD
REF #
Management of the topic
GRI 3: Material Disclosure 3-3 Management of material topics 14.14.1
Topics 2021
Additional sector recommendations
• Describe how the organization seeks to prevent or mitigate potential negative
impacts from the use of public and private security providers.
• Report whether the organization is implementing the Voluntary Principles on
Security and Human Rights.
Topic Standard disclosures
GRI 410: Security Disclosure 410-1 Security personnel trained in human rights policies or 14.14.2
Practices 2016 procedures
References and resources
GRI 410: Security Practices 2016 lists additional references relevant to reporting on this topic.
The additional authoritative instruments and references used in developing this topic, as well as resources that may
be helpful for reporting on security practices by the mining sector are listed in the Bibliography.
Topic 14.15 Critical incident management
Critical incident management deals with the prevention and control of incidents that can lead to fatalities, injuries
or ill health, environmental impacts, and damage to local communities and infrastructure. This topic covers
impacts from such incidents and an organization’s approach to managing them.
Critical incidents in the mining sector not only cause damage to the organization’s assets but can have catastrophic
impacts on workers, local communities, and the environment, for example, through air, soil, and water contamination,
ecosystem and habitat degradation, and animal mortality. These impacts can potentially disrupt other economic
activities that depend on natural resources, such as agriculture and fishing, affecting livelihoods and compromising
food safety and security.
Critical incidents in the mining sector can be related to, for example, the release of hazardous chemicals and gases,
rock dump and tailings facility failures (see also topic 14.6 Tailings), stope collapses, ground subsidence, landslides,
fires, floods, and vehicle collisions. The transportation, use, and storage of explosives used for blasting can result in
injury or the loss of life among workers and local communities. Incidents can be attributed to, for example, improperly
16 Workers hired from the local community include those individuals either born or who have the legal right to reside indefinitely (such as naturalized
citizens or permanent visa holders) in the same geographic market as the mining operation. The geographical definition of ‘local’ can include the
community surrounding operations, a region within a country, or a country. This additional sector disclosure is based on Disclosure 202-2 Proportion of
senior management hired from the local community in GRI 202: Market Presence 2016.
38 GRI 14: Mining Sector 2024
used or malfunctioning equipment, human error, mechanical errors, equipment failure (see also topic 14.16
Occupational health and safety), and poor management of waste and hazardous materials (see also topic 14.5
Waste) that can result in fatalities, injuries, or ill health. Incidents can also be attributed to mining-induced seismicity,
climatic conditions, and weather events. The likelihood of extreme weather events, such as floods, droughts, fires,
and heatwaves, is increasing due to climate change (see also topic 14.2 Climate adaptation and resilience). Critical
incidents in the supply chain can involve, for example, contractors performing on-site mining activities or
transportation companies involved in highway accidents while dispatching products.
Mining organizations implement critical control management to anticipate incidents and define the controls that must
be in place to mitigate or remediate the risk of the incident occurring. Negative impacts from critical incidents can be
more effectively prevented and mitigated when an emergency preparedness and response plan is in place. The
timely implementation of these measures is essential when critical incidents occur. Mining organizations can
enhance readiness for an emergency by establishing effective communication channels and engaging with local
communities and other relevant stakeholders about potential health and safety risks associated with mining activities.
They can also involve these groups in the remediation process to ensure a comprehensive and collaborative
response (see also topic 14.10 Local communities).
Reporting on critical incident management
If the organization has determined critical incident management to be a material topic, this sub-section lists the
disclosures identified as relevant for reporting on the topic by the mining sector.
STANDARD DISCLOSURE SECTOR
STANDARD
REF #
Management of the topic
GRI 3: Material Disclosure 3-3 Management of material topics 14.15.1
Topics 2021
Additional sector recommendations
• Describe the organization’s approach to emergency preparedness and
response plans, including frequency of testing the plans, and how
engagement with local communities, workers, public sector agencies, first
responders, and local authorities and institutions has informed the plans.
39 GRI 14: Mining Sector 2024
Topic Standard disclosures
GRI 306: Disclosure 306-3 Significant spills19 14.15.2
Effluents and
Waste 2016
Additional sector disclosures
Report the number of critical incidents in the reporting period, describe their impacts, and actions 14.15.3
taken to remediate them.
Report the percentage of mine sites that have emergency preparedness and response plans in place, 14.15.4
and list the sites that do not.
References and resources
GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016 lists authoritative intergovernmental instruments relevant to reporting on this
topic.
The additional authoritative instruments and references used in developing this topic, as well as resources that may
be helpful for reporting on critical incident management by the mining sector are listed in the Bibliography.
Topic 14.16 Occupational health and safety
Healthy and safe work conditions are recognized as a human right. Occupational health and safety involves the
prevention of physical and mental harm to workers and promotion of workers’ health. This topic covers impacts
related to workers’ health and safety.
The health and safety of workers engaged in mining activities is an ongoing concern for organizations in the sector.
Hazards include working with heavy machinery, poor mine structures, and exposure to or handling explosive,
flammable, poisonous, or harmful substances. Hazards can be associated with working in confined spaces or
isolated locations, long working hours and repetitive tasks. Extraction methods can also determine the severity of
hazards, with workers in underground mines often facing higher risks. Additionally, workers in developing countries,
especially in remote mine sites, are at a higher risk of workplace injuries and ill health.
Hazards associated with the mining sector can result in high-consequence work-related injuries. Injuries can result
from explosives use, the release of gas or dust in confined areas (see also topic 14.3 Air emissions), electrical faults
or fires, the collapse of mine structures or facility failures (see also topics 14.15 Critical incident management and
14.6 Tailings), the malfunctioning or misuse of mining equipment, or the lack of adequate personal protective
equipment. Transportation accidents frequently occur in the mining sector, particularly among suppliers.
Health hazards can be biological, chemical, ergonomic, or physical. The use of chemicals and exposure to hazardous
substances, such as cyanide or mercury, in mineral extraction and processing can lead to long-term health impacts
for workers. Exposure to extreme temperatures, harmful radiation, and machinery noise or vibration can result in
illness among workers. Health hazards also include poor hygiene, reduced food or water quality in mine sites, and
workers' accommodation that can result in diseases. Vulnerable groups, including pregnant women, can be
particularly susceptible to health hazards in the sector.
Psychosocial hazards related to common employment practices in the sector include fly-in fly-out work arrangements,
long travel times, rotational work, long shifts, night work, irregular working hours, solitary work, living in the workplace,
and inadequate rest (see also topic 14.17 Employment practices). These practices can also cause fatigue,
increasing the risk of injury. In addition, workplaces characterized by gender imbalance can contribute to increased
stress, discrimination, or sexual harassment (see also topic 14.21 Non-discrimination and equal opportunity).
Women are often disproportionately affected by remote working environments, inflexible hours, and the prevalence of
gender-based violence and harassment fostered by a male-dominated workforce [266].
In the mining sector, the incidence of high-consequence work-related injury tends to be higher for workers who are
not employees, such as contractors. This can be attributed to imbalances in occupational health and safety
management systems coverage and the application of safety standards, which may not cover contract workers in the
same way employees are covered. Contractors might also be less familiar with workplace safety mechanisms and
40 GRI 14: Mining Sector 2024
practices or be less committed to them.
Reporting on occupational health and safety
If the organization has determined occupational health and safety to be a material topic, this sub-section lists the
disclosures identified as relevant for reporting on the topic by the mining sector.
STANDARD DISCLOSURE SECTOR
STANDARD
REF #
Management of the topic
GRI 3: Material Disclosure 3-3 Management of material topics 14.16.1
Topics 2021
Topic Standard disclosures
GRI 403: Disclosure 403-1 Occupational health and safety management system 14.16.2
Occupational
Disclosure 403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident 14.16.3
Health and
investigation
Safety 2018
Additional sector recommendations
• Report how the organization ensures the provision of gender-appropriate
personal protective equipment for workers.
• Describe the processes used to identify work-related incidents due to sexual
and gender-based violence, and to determine corrective actions.
Disclosure 403-3 Occupational health services 14.16.4
Disclosure 403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and communication on 14.16.5
occupational health and safety
Additional sector recommendations
• Report how the organization seeks to ensure women’s participation in formal
joint management-worker health and safety committees, and the percentage of
women represented in these committees.
Disclosure 403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety 14.16.6
Disclosure 403-6 Promotion of worker health 14.16.7
Disclosure 403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and safety 14.16.8
impacts directly linked by business relationships
Disclosure 403-8 Workers covered by an occupational health and safety 14.16.9
management system
Disclosure 403-9 Work-related injuries 14.16.10
Disclosure 403-10 Work-related ill health 14.16.11
References and resources
GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2018 lists authoritative intergovernmental instruments and additional
references relevant to reporting on this topic.
The additional authoritative instruments and references used in developing this topic, as well as resources that may
be helpful for reporting on occupational health and safety by the mining sector are listed in the Bibliography.
Topic 14.17 Employment practices
41 GRI 14: Mining Sector 2024
Employment practices refer to an organization’s approach to job creation, terms of employment, and working
conditions for its workers. This topic also covers the employment and working conditions in an organization’s
supply chain.
While mining can offer well-paid work opportunities, negative impacts on workers can derive from challenging
working conditions and ineffective labor-management consultations. Job insecurity due to closures, fluctuating
commodity price cycles, and technological advances provide additional challenges for workers.
Employment practices can vary in relation to remuneration, hours of work, health and safety coverage, training
opportunities, social protection, job security, and access to grievance mechanisms. Full-time employees generally
have access to benefits that might not be available to part-time employees. Employment terms can vary between local
and migrant workers, whereby remuneration for these workers may be unequal, and benefits, such as bonuses,
housing allowances, and private insurance plans, may only be offered to high-skilled migrant workers.
Various activities in the mining sector may be outsourced to suppliers. This practice is common during all phases in
the life of the mine, such as construction or maintenance, or for specific activities, such as catering, drilling, security,
and transportation. Outsourcing activities could allow organizations in the mining sector to reduce their labor costs or
bypass collective agreements that are in place for employees, potentially increasing disparities between employees
and workers who are not employees (see also topic 14.20 Freedom of association and collective bargaining).
Many jobs in the mining sector have complex shift patterns, often involving long hours and night work to ensure the
continuity of operations around the clock. This can cause high levels of fatigue and increase risks related to health
and safety. The remote locations of many mine sites might necessitate the use of fly-in fly-out or other transportation
arrangements. Workers who are transported to mine sites for several weeks at a time and often required to work
irregular shifts can experience negative impacts on their psychosocial health (see also topic 14.16 Occupational
health and safety). These working conditions can also act as a barrier to the employment of primary caregivers, most
often women [276] (see also topic 14.21 Non-discrimination and equal opportunity).
Transformations in the sector, such as automation, the deployment of new technologies, and the low-carbon
transition, are also changing the employment conditions and opportunities in the sector. Mining organizations can
support workers, for example, by providing resources for training, education, and the development of long-term skills
and capacities.
Reporting on employment practices
If the organization has determined employment practices to be a material topic, this sub-section lists the disclosures
identified as relevant for reporting on the topic by the mining sector.
STANDARD DISCLOSURE SECTOR
STANDARD
REF #
Management of the topic
GRI 3: Material Disclosure 3-3 Management of material topics 14.17.1
Topics 2021
Topic Standard disclosures
GRI 202: Market Disclosure 202-1 Ratios of standard entry-level wage by gender compared to 14.17.2
Presence 2016 local minimum wage
GRI 401: Disclosure 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 14.17.3
Employment 2016
Disclosure 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided 14.17.4
to temporary or part-time employees
Disclosure 401-3 Parental leave 14.17.5
GRI 402: Disclosure 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes 14.17.6
Labor/Management
Relations 2016
GRI 404: Training Disclosure 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 14.17.7
42 GRI 14: Mining Sector 2024
and Education
Disclosure 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition 14.17.8
2016
assistance programs
GRI 414: Supplier Disclosure 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria 14.17.9
Social Assessment
Disclosure 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 14.17.10
2016
References and resources
GRI 401: Employment 2016, GRI 402: Labor/Management Relations 2016, GRI 404: Training and Education 2016,
and GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 2016 list authoritative intergovernmental instruments and additional
references relevant to reporting on this topic.
The additional authoritative instruments and references used in developing this topic, as well as resources that may
be helpful for reporting on employment practices by the mining sector are listed in the Bibliography.
Topic 14.18 Child labor
Child labor is defined as work that deprives children of their childhood, their potential, and their dignity, and that is
harmful to their development, including by interfering with their education. It is a violation of human rights and can
lead to lifelong negative impacts. Abolition of child labor is a fundamental principle and right at work.
Children face multiple hazards when working in mining, such as falling rocks, explosions, fires, and the collapse of
mine walls. Mining frequently takes place in remote regions with limited access to law enforcement, schools, social
services, and family or community support, also making it morally hazardous and psychologically perilous for children
engaged in such labor. The International Labour Organization (ILO) considers mining and quarrying as hazardous
work and one of the worst forms of child labor, the elimination of which is a priority.
Mining organizations are more likely to become involved with child labor through their suppliers than through their own
activities, for example, during the construction of mine sites where work is carried out by suppliers. The specific
impacts associated with child labor often depend on gender. For example, girls and young women can be forced into
prostitution or provide support services such as washing minerals and cooking. Mining organizations can also
become involved with child labor when they purchase minerals extracted by artisanal and small-scale mining (ASM)
operators that use child labor (see also topic 14.13 Artisanal and small-scale mining). An estimated one million
children between the ages of five and 17 are engaged in ASM and quarrying activities worldwide [285] [286].
Mining organizations can be more exposed to risks of child labor when operating in conflict-affected and high-risk
areas (see also topic 14.25). Increased poverty in rural areas due to low employment opportunities and low wages
can also drive the incidence of child labor in ancillary or support activities.
To fulfill their responsibility to respect human rights, mining organizations are expected to carry out due diligence to
identify activities and suppliers that are at significant risk for incidents of child labor and use their leverage to
contribute to the effective abolition of child labor. Several governments have issued legislation requiring public
reporting on addressing modern slavery as part of a global effort. Such legislation applies to organizations in the
mining sector.
Box 6. Holistic approach to combat child labor
Although the use of child labor has declined globally, increased artisanal and small-scale mining (ASM) activity over
the past decades may have resulted in higher levels of children working in mining.
Local economic circumstances and the need for additional family income are key drivers for child labor in mines.
Studies have found that disengagement from ASM by mining organizations to avoid the negative impacts of child
labor can paradoxically exacerbate the issue and drive ASM to operate in more informal environments with more
hazardous working conditions. To holistically address the issue, mining organizations can collaborate with ASMs
and local communities to identify child labor activities and the children involved, and cooperate with authorities to
promote and sustain economic development [288].
43 GRI 14: Mining Sector 2024
Reporting on child labor
If the organization has determined child labor to be a material topic, this sub-section lists the disclosures identified as
relevant for reporting on the topic by the mining sector.
STANDARD DISCLOSURE SECTOR
STANDARD
REF #
Management of the topic
GRI 3: Material Disclosure 3-3 Management of material topics 14.18.1
Topics 2021
Topic Standard disclosures
GRI 408: Child Disclosure 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child 14.18.2
labor 2016 labor
GRI 414: Supplier Disclosure 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria 14.18.3
Social
Assessment
2016
References and resources
GRI 408: Child labor 2016 and GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 2016 list authoritative intergovernmental
instruments and additional references relevant to reporting on this topic.
The additional authoritative instruments and references used in developing this topic, as well as resources that may
be helpful for reporting on child labor by the mining sector are listed in the Bibliography.
Topic 14.19 Forced labor and modern slavery
Forced labor is defined as all work or service which is exacted from any person under the menace of penalty and
for which a person has not offered themselves voluntarily. Freedom from forced labor is a human right and a
fundamental right at work. This topic covers an organization’s approach to identifying and addressing forced
labor and modern slavery.
It is estimated that 4% of all forced labor happens in mining and quarrying [299]. Forced labor and modern slavery
occur in situations of involuntary recruitment through trafficking, difficulty leaving the employer without penalty, violent
threats, sexual exploitation, debt bondage, deceptive recruitment, withholding of wages, or the retention of
identification documents.
Cases of forced labor and modern slavery are especially prevalent in artisanal and small-scale mining (see also
topic 14.13) and in conflict-affected and high-risk areas (see also topic 14.25). Migrant workers in the mining sector
are also more likely to work under conditions of coercion. They may be unaware of their legal status, lack valid work
permits, and have their passports or identification documents confiscated.
Mining organizations can be involved with incidents of forced labor and modern slavery through their business
relationships, such as with suppliers who may operate in countries with low enforcement of human rights. In order to
fulfill their responsibility to respect human rights, mining organizations are expected to carry out due diligence to
identify mine sites and business relationships that are at significant risk for incidents of forced labor and modern
slavery. Organizations can also use leverage in their supply chains to combat forced labor and modern slavery.
As part of a global effort, several governments have introduced legislation requiring public reporting on addressing
modern slavery, including forced labor practices. In these jurisdictions, such legislation applies to organizations in the
mining sector.
44 GRI 14: Mining Sector 2024
Reporting on forced labor and modern slavery
If the organization has determined forced labor and modern slavery to be a material topic, this sub-section lists the
disclosures identified as relevant for reporting on the topic by the mining sector.
STANDARD DISCLOSURE SECTOR
STANDARD
REF #
Management of the topic
GRI 3: Material Disclosure 3-3 Management of material topics 14.19.1
Topics 2021
Topic Standard disclosures
GRI 409: Forced Disclosure 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of 14.19.2
or Compulsory forced or compulsory labor
Labor 2016
GRI 414: Supplier Disclosure 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria 14.19.3
Social
Assessment
2016
References and resources
GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labor 2016 and GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 2016 list authoritative
intergovernmental instruments and additional references relevant to reporting on this topic.
The additional authoritative instruments and references used in developing this topic, as well as resources that may
be helpful for reporting on forced labor and modern slavery by the mining sector are listed in the Bibliography.
17 For further guidance, see Requirements 10, 14, and 25 in the IFC Performance Standard 5 Land Acquisition and Involuntary Resettlement [220].
45 GRI 14: Mining Sector 2024
Topic 14.20 Freedom of association and collective bargaining
Freedom of association and collective bargaining are human rights and fundamental rights at work. They include
the rights of employers and workers to form, join, and run their own organizations without prior authorization or
interference, and to collectively negotiate working conditions and terms of employment. This topic covers an
organization’s approach and impacts related to freedom of association and collective bargaining.
Freedom of association and collective bargaining can help improve working conditions in the mining sector, including
occupational health and safety, wages, and job security. They address the right of workers to assemble, organize,
belong to trade unions or political parties, elect representatives, and strike without interference from their employers.
Many workers in the mining sector have traditionally been represented by trade unions, with jobs covered by collective
bargaining agreements. However, some mining activities take place in countries where workers’ rights are restricted
or not efficiently enforced. Restrictions on effective worker representation might exist even in jurisdictions where
unions are legal. Workers who join unions might face intimidation or unfair treatment, harassment, payment cuts, or
even employment termination.
Documented cases of interference with freedom of association and collective bargaining in the sector include the
detention of managers and other employees, invasion of privacy, non-adherence to collective agreements, and the
prevention of trade union access to workplaces to assist workers. Other documented cases include the refusal to
bargain in good faith with workers’ chosen trade unions. Union members and leaders have been threatened,
harassed, kidnapped, beaten, and, in severe cases, even murdered. Unfair dismissal and unilateral cancellation of
collective bargaining agreements are other forms of interference with freedom of association and collective
bargaining.
There can be disparity in implementing workers' rights due to differing terms and conditions of employment in the
sector. Contract workers, for example, are often excluded from the scope of collective bargaining agreements and
might receive less favorable employment conditions and lower base salaries or benefits compared to employees.
Lack of access to freedom of association and collective bargaining can result in adverse working conditions, such as
low wages and long working hours, which exacerbate impacts on those already facing work-related vulnerabilities
and isolation (see also topic 14.21 Non-discrimination and equal opportunity).
Trade unions have reported restrictions on temporary workers or workers employed by suppliers accessing the same
rights as other employees. In some cases, organizations have hired workers on short-term contracts or outsourced
jobs to prevent workers from joining unions. Similarly, migrant workers are also less likely to be covered by collective
bargaining agreements or able to join unions.
According to the International Labour Organization (ILO), all workers should enjoy the right to freedom of association
and collective bargaining, and organizations should ensure that these rights are not unreasonably affected. Mining
organizations can ensure that workers of all employment conditions have access to grievance mechanisms, often
facilitated or partly designed by unions, to help resolve stakeholder concerns before they develop into conflicts.
Reporting on freedom of association and collective bargaining
If the organization has determined freedom of association and collective bargaining to be a material topic, this sub-
section lists the disclosures identified as relevant for reporting on the topic by the mining sector.
STANDARD DISCLOSURE SECTOR
STANDARD
REF #
Management of the topic
GRI 3: Material Disclosure 3-3 Management of material topics 14.20.1
Topics 2021
Topic Standard disclosures
GRI 407: Disclosure 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of 14.20.2
Freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at risk
Association and
46 GRI 14: Mining Sector 2024
Collective
Bargaining 2016
Additional sector disclosures
Report the number of strikes and lockouts involving 1,000 or more workers lasting one full shift or 14.20.3
longer, and their total duration in worker days idle.20
References and resources
GRI 407: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 2016 lists authoritative intergovernmental instruments
relevant to reporting on this topic.
The additional authoritative instruments and references used in developing this topic, as well as resources that may
be helpful for reporting on freedom of association and collective bargaining by the mining sector are listed in the
Bibliography.
Topic 14.21 Non-discrimination and equal opportunity
Freedom from discrimination is a human right and a fundamental right at work. Discrimination can impose
unequal burdens on individuals or deny fair opportunities on the basis of individual merit. This topic covers
impacts from discrimination and practices related to diversity, inclusion, and equal opportunity.
The nature of work in the mining sector, including the conditions, locations, necessary skills, and types of work, can
inhibit diversity and equal opportunity for workers. While the barriers to entry in mining can be detrimental to an
inclusive workplace, discrimination within mining organizations can also impede job access and career development,
leading to disparities in treatment, basic salary, and benefits.
Discrimination can manifest within mining organizations and in their supply chains. Discrimination can occur based
on age, gender, race, religion, nationality, sexual orientation, or worker status. Individuals from vulnerable groups
often face a higher risk of discrimination. They include Indigenous Peoples, ethnic or other minorities, migrant
workers, and workers with HIV/AIDs or other chronic health issues.
The mining sector is characterized by a significant gender imbalance among workers, including senior management.
Examples of unequal treatment for women workers include impeded access to jobs, less pay than male
counterparts, and discrimination in hiring. Other challenges include the physical demands of mining operations, the
effects of fly-in fly-out work arrangements, long hours, and limited parental leave and childcare opportunities. Women
at mine sites can also face a lack of gender-appropriate facilities and protective equipment.
In addition, male-dominated work cultures and gendered organizational norms have contributed to the likelihood of
sexual harassment in the workplace, documented in fly-in fly-out worker camps. The remoteness of mine sites can
also contribute to gender-based discrimination due to having less access to protective services, legal representation,
and law enforcement personnel. Mining organizations can promote gender equity and inclusion in the workplace by,
for example, recognizing women’s rights at work, providing gender-appropriate facilities and equipment, and ensuring
equal opportunities.
Local workers and Indigenous Peoples can experience racial and ethnic discrimination at all organizational levels.
Jobseekers from local communities are sometimes excluded from the hiring process or might receive lower pay than
expatriate employees recruited for skill-specific roles. Migrant workers, especially when low-skilled or working at the
mine site on a temporary basis, can face additional forms of discrimination in employment and treatment (see also
topic 14.17 Employment practices). Contract workers can also be more vulnerable to discrimination if organization-
wide discrimination policies do not protect their working arrangements.
Alongside accessible and effective grievance mechanisms, understanding how specific groups may be subject to
discrimination across different locations of mining activities can help the sector effectively address discriminatory
practices. Establishing and supporting transparent workplace policies on inclusion and diversity, such as training
workers about cultural sensitivity and non-discrimination, can help foster a respectful workplace and prevent
discrimination.
Reporting on non-discrimination and equal opportunity
18 In the context of this disclosure, an ‘incident’ refers to a legal action or complaint registered with the reporting organization or competent authorities
through a formal process, or an instance of non-compliance identified by the organization through established procedures (management system
audits, formal monitoring programs, or grievance mechanisms).
47 GRI 14: Mining Sector 2024
If the organization has determined non-discrimination and equal opportunity to be a material topic, this sub-section
lists the disclosures identified as relevant for reporting on the topic by the mining sector.
STANDARD DISCLOSURE SECTOR
STANDARD
REF #
Management of the topic
GRI 3: Material Disclosure 3-3 Management of material topics 14.21.1
Topics 2021
Topic Standard disclosures
GRI 202: Market Disclosure 202-2 Proportion of senior management hired from the local 14.21.2
Presence 2016 community
Additional sector recommendations
• Report a breakdown of the percentage of senior management hired from the
local community by gender.
GRI 401: Disclosure 401-3 Parental leave 14.21.3
Employment
2016
GRI 404: Training Disclosure 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 14.21.4
and Education
2016
GRI 405: Diversity Disclosure 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 14.21.5
and Equal
Opportunity
Additional sector recommendations
2016 • Report whether the organization has a gender equality or gender equity plan or
policy in place and, if so, provide a summary of the plan, and progress made in
implementing the plan.
Disclosure 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men 14.21.6
Additional sector recommendations
• Report the ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by mine
site.
• Report the ratio of basic salary and remuneration by other relevant indicators of
diversity by mine site.21
GRI 406: Non- Disclosure 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 14.21.7
discrimination
2016
References and resources
GRI 202: Market Presence 2016, GRI 401: Employment 2016, GRI 404: Training and Education 2016, GRI 405:
Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016, and GRI 406: Non-discrimination 2016 list authoritative intergovernmental
instruments relevant to reporting on this topic.
The additional authoritative instruments and references used in developing this topic, as well as resources that may
be helpful for reporting on non-discrimination and equal opportunity by the mining sector are listed in the
Bibliography.
Topic 14.22 Anti-corruption
Anti-corruption refers to how an organization manages the potential of being involved with corruption. Corruption
is practices such as bribery, facilitation payments, fraud, extortion, collusion, money laundering, or the offer or
receipt of an inducement to do something dishonest or illegal. This topic covers impacts related to corruption and
an organization’s approach related to contract and ownership transparency.
48 GRI 14: Mining Sector 2024
Corruption in the mining sector can occur throughout the value chain, irrespective of the country of operation or the
country's economic development, location, and political context. Corruption can have several negative impacts, such
as the misallocation of resource revenues and harm to the environment and people when mining projects are
awarded to unqualified or unethical organizations. Other impacts include the abuse of democracy and human rights,
and the potential for political instability.
Corruption can also divert resource revenues to private beneficiaries at the expense of public investments in
infrastructure or services. This can be particularly critical in countries with high poverty levels where existing
inequalities might be intensified. The risk of corruption is prevalent in conflict-afflicted and high-risk areas since
increased pressure on resource availability and instability might be exploited (see also topic 14.25 Conflict-affected
and high-risk areas).
Characteristics of the mining sector that increase the likelihood of corruption include frequent interaction between
mining organizations and politically exposed persons22, such as government officials, for licenses and regulatory
approvals. Other relevant characteristics include complex financial transactions and the international reach of the
sector (see also topic 14.23 Payments to governments).
State-owned enterprises (SOEs) in the mining sector are more exposed to corruption, particularly in the process of
awarding permits, procuring goods and services, commodity trading, and non-commercial activities such as social
expenditures [325]. SOEs might have less effective internal controls and fewer transparency expectations than public
companies and often receive preferential treatment due to their special legal status in a country. Private mining
organizations partnering with SOEs are thus more prone to corruption due to their business relationship. In addition
to driving profit, SOEs sometimes pursue broader objectives such as community development. However, without
adequate oversight, measures for community development might be abused for corrupt purposes.
Corruption has been identified in the mining sector during the process of awarding exploration and production
contracts and licenses. This corruption can have the aim of obtaining confidential information, exerting influence on
decision-making, or circumventing environmental and local content regulations. Corruption can also occur in the
consultation process when seeking consent and when compensating local communities, either directly or through
local governments, which might lack transparent financial procedures (see also topic 14.12 Land and resource rights
and 14.11 Rights of Indigenous Peoples). Corruption in these processes may result in licenses being awarded to
less qualified organizations, jeopardizing public investments, or negatively impacting the environment and local
communities.
Corrupt practices can also be aimed at blocking or shaping policies and regulations or influencing their enforcement.
This is particularly common to land and resource rights regulations, taxes and other government levies, or
environmental protections (see also topic 14.24 Public policy). A lack of transparency in procurement practices can
have significant economic impacts on host countries and local economic development (see also topic 14.9 Economic
impacts). Examples of this can include paying bribes to have regulations or quality requirements waived, receiving
kickbacks for securing contracts at inflated prices, profiting from inflated prices charged by an entity established as a
front organization, and favoring companies connected to local regulators.
A lack of transparency on contracts and licensing over mineral resource extraction may obstruct public scrutiny of
investments and transactions linked to a project’s negative impacts and benefits, including negotiated terms and
obligations of organizations. Fair terms for sharing risks and rewarding benefits are particularly relevant because of
the long-term time horizons and widespread impacts of mining projects. Contract transparency helps local
communities hold governments and organizations accountable for their negotiated terms and obligations. Opaque
ownership structures, in turn, can make it difficult to determine who benefits from these financial transactions.
Transparency of beneficial ownership has been identified as a vehicle to deter conflicts of interest, corruption, tax
avoidance, and evasion.
Stakeholders, the marketplace, and international norms expect organizations in the mining sector to demonstrate
their adherence to national laws, integrity, governance, and responsible business practices to combat corruption and
prevent the negative impacts that stem from it.
Reporting on anti-corruption
If the organization has determined anti-corruption to be a material topic, this sub-section lists the disclosures
identified as relevant for reporting on the topic by the mining sector.
STANDARD DISCLOSURE SECTOR
STANDARD
REF #
49 GRI 14: Mining Sector 2024
Management of the topic
GRI 3: Material Disclosure 3-3 Management of material topics 14.22.1
Topics 2021
Additional sector recommendations
• Describe how potential impacts of corruption or risks of corruption are
managed in the organization’s procurement practices and throughout the
supply chain.
Topic Standard disclosures
GRI 205: Anti- Disclosure 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 14.22.2
corruption 2016
Disclosure 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and 14.22.3
procedures
Disclosure 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 14.22.4
Additional sector disclosures
Describe the approach to contract transparency, including: 14.22.5
• whether contracts and licenses are made publicly available and, if so, where they are published;
• if contracts or licenses are not publicly available, the reason for this and actions taken to make
them public in the future.23
Report the following information about the organization’s beneficial owners, including joint ventures: 14.22.6
• name, nationality, and country of residence;
• whether they are politically exposed persons;
• level of ownership;
• how ownership or control is exerted.24
References and resources
GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016 lists authoritative intergovernmental instruments and additional references relevant to
reporting on this topic.
The additional authoritative instruments and references used in developing this topic, as well as resources that may
be helpful for reporting on anti-corruption by the mining sector are listed in the Bibliography.
Topic 14.23 Payments to governments
Lack of transparency about payments to governments can contribute to inefficient management of public funds,
illicit financial flows, and corruption. This topic covers impacts from an organization's practices related to
payments to governments and the organization’s approach to transparency of such payments.
The mining sector can have significant impacts on national incomes, fiscal revenues, and foreign exchange revenues
by means of various payments to governments (see also topic 14.9 Economic impacts). These payments include
commodity trading revenues, exploration and production licensing fees, taxes and royalties, and signature, discovery,
and production bonuses.
Organizations that engage in aggressive tax practices or tax non-compliance can diminish national tax revenues to
the detriment of the public good. Avoidance of taxes and other payments to governments can be facilitated by tax
minimization practices such as transfer pricing or illicit financial flows, which include the cross-border movement of
money that is illegally earned, transferred, or used [341].
Mining organizations can receive financial assistance from governments in the form of tax relief, subsidies, grants, or
financial incentives. This can potentially hinder government revenue collection and reduce the financial benefits of
mining which create economic development. These risks are more prevalent in developing countries as well as
conflict-affected and high-risk areas, where the need for public revenue is often higher.
Reporting on payments to governments can highlight the economic importance of the mining sector to countries,
50 GRI 14: Mining Sector 2024
enable public debate, and inform government decision-making. It can also provide insights into the terms of
contracts, increase accountability, and strengthen revenue collection and management. On the other hand, a lack of
transparency by mining organizations can impede the detection of potentially misallocated revenues and corruption
(see also topic 14.22 Anti-corruption).
When disclosing information on payments to governments, organizations in the mining sector often report aggregate
payments at an organizational level. However, this can provide limited insight into payments made in each country or
related projects. Reporting country-by-country and by project (or mine site) allows for comparisons of the payments
made to those stipulated in fiscal, legal, and contractual terms. It also allows for an assessment of the financial
contribution of mining activities to host countries and communities. Full disclosure enables governments to address
tax avoidance and evasion, correct information asymmetry, and level the playing field for governments when
negotiating contracts.
Reporting on payments to governments
If the organization has determined payments to governments to be a material topic, this sub-section lists the
disclosures identified as relevant for reporting on the topic by the mining sector.
STANDARD DISCLOSURE SECTOR
STANDARD
REF #
Management of the topic
GRI 3: Material Disclosure 3-3 Management of material topics 14.23.1
Topics 2021
Topic Standard disclosures
GRI 201: Disclosure 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 14.23.2
Economic
Disclosure 201-4 Financial assistance received from government 14.23.3
Performance
2016
Additional sector recommendations
For state-owned organizations (SOEs):
• Report the financial relationship between the government and the SOE.25
GRI 207: Tax Disclosure 207-1 Approach to tax 14.23.4
2019
Disclosure 207-2 Tax governance, control, and risk management 14.23.5
Disclosure 207-3 Stakeholder engagement and management of concerns related 14.23.6
to tax
Disclosure 207-4 Country-by-country reporting 14.23.7
Additional sector recommendations
• Report a breakdown of the organization’s corporate income tax paid and
accrued in profit/loss, and other payments to governments, levied at the
project-level, by project, and by material revenue stream.26
• Report any thresholds27 that have been applied and any other contextual
information necessary to understand how the project-level payments to
governments reported have been compiled.
Additional sector disclosures
For minerals purchased from the state or from third parties appointed by the state to sell on their 14.23.8
behalf, report:
• volumes and types of minerals purchased;
• full names of the selling entity and the recipient of the payment;
• payments made for the purchase.28
19 The effluents-related content of GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016 has been superseded by GRI 303: Water and Effluents 2018, and the waste-related
content has been superseded by GRI 306: Waste 2020. The spills-related content in GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016 remains in effect.
51 GRI 14: Mining Sector 2024
References and resources
GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016 and GRI 207: Tax 2019 list authoritative intergovernmental instruments and
additional references relevant to reporting on this topic.
The additional authoritative instruments and references used in developing this topic, as well as resources that may
be helpful for reporting on payments to governments by the mining sector are listed in the Bibliography.
Topic 14.24 Public policy
An organization can participate in public policy development, directly or through an intermediary organization, by
means of lobbying or making financial or in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, or causes. While an
organization can encourage the development of public policy that benefits society, participation can also be
associated with corruption, bribery, undue influence, or an imbalanced representation of the organization’s
interests. This topic covers an organization’s approach to public policy advocacy and the impacts that can result
from the influence an organization exerts.
Organizations in the mining sector can influence public policy development through lobbying and advocacy at local,
regional, and national levels. These measures can allow access to government representatives and increase
organizations' influence over public policy decisions affecting the mining sector. Advocacy and lobbying can be carried
out directly by the organization or through industry groups and other associations supported by the mining
organization.
The sector can use its influence to advance responsible sector practices by safeguarding existing jobs, assisting in
community development, and fostering foreign investment in a country. However, public policy and lobbying activities
can also be used to secure mining license approvals, influence legislation on environmental and social
assessments, and lower taxes and other government levies (see also topic 14.23 Payments to governments). These
activities can ultimately shape environmental policies and obstruct sustainable development. For example, mining
organizations are under increasing scrutiny for links to industry groups that advocate for policies inconsistent with the
organizations’ own publicly stated positions and the goals of the Paris Agreement [349].
Mining organizations can also influence public policy at local levels to have mining developments approved, for
example, by colluding with local leaders while excluding the wider community from decision-making processes (see
also topic 14.10 Local communities).
In some cases, direct contributions to political parties or through intermediaries can be used to gain favor for private
sector interests. These contributions can be linked to corruption, especially in areas where regulations on political
donations and lobbying are weak (see also topic 14.22 Anti-corruption). Mining organizations can also employ former
government representatives to acquire sensitive or insider knowledge about future policies to gain a commercial
advantage.
Increased transparency about lobbying activities and political contributions made by mining organizations and
affiliated industry groups can facilitate scrutiny by accountability organizations, the general public, and the media. This
transparency enables stakeholders to assess whether mining organizations, directly or through their affiliations with
industry groups, have improperly influenced legislative decisions, policy-making, and regulatory approvals.
Reporting on public policy
52 GRI 14: Mining Sector 2024
If the organization has determined public policy to be a material topic, this sub-section lists the disclosures identified
as relevant for reporting on the topic by the mining sector.
STANDARD DISCLOSURE SECTOR
STANDARD
REF #
Management of the topic
GRI 3: Material Disclosure 3-3 Management of material topics 14.24.1
Topics 2021
Additional sector recommendations
• Report whether the organization is a member of, or contributes to, any
representative associations or committees that participate in public policy
development and lobbying, including:
- the nature of this contribution;
- any differences between the organization’s stated policies, goals, or other
public positions on significant issues and the positions of the
representative associations or committees.29
Topic Standard disclosures
GRI 415: Public Disclosure 415-1 Political contributions 14.24.2
Policy 2016
References and resources
GRI 415: Public Policy 2016 lists authoritative intergovernmental instruments and additional references relevant to
reporting on this topic.
The additional authoritative instruments and references used in developing this topic, as well as resources that may
be helpful for reporting on public policy by the mining sector are listed in the Bibliography.
Topic 14.25 Conflict-affected and high-risk areas
When operating in or sourcing from conflict-affected and high-risk areas, organizations are more likely to be
involved in human rights and legal violations and be implicated in corruption and financial flows contributing to
conflict. This topic covers an organization’s approach and impacts related to operating in or sourcing from
conflict-affected and high-risk areas.
Many mining organizations operate in or have business relationships with entities that have activities in conflict-
affected and high-risk areas.30 In these areas, there is a heightened risk of serious human rights abuses and
violations of law, including international humanitarian law.31 Operating in and sourcing from conflict-affected and high-
risk areas requires heightened due diligence of mining organizations on an ongoing basis. This allows for a better
contextual understanding of the conflict and the interactions the organization may have with business relationships to
identify, prevent, or mitigate potential negative impacts, including contributing to conflict [362].
While armed conflict and widespread violence can occur independent of mining activities, the presence of these
activities can also exacerbate conflict. The circumstances of extraction, trade, or handling of minerals by their nature
have higher risks of significant negative impacts, such as financing conflict or fueling and facilitating conditions of
conflict. Specific abuses related to these activities include torture; cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment; forced or
compulsory labor; worst forms of child labor; widespread sexual violence; and war crimes or other serious violations
of international humanitarian law, crimes against humanity, or genocide [358]. Weak governance structures and the
presence of armed groups can also inhibit the implementation of standards and regulations needed to mitigate the
environmental impacts of mining.
In conflict-affected and high-risk areas, armed groups or their affiliates often illegally control mine sites, transportation
routes, or points where minerals are traded. Armed groups may illegally tax or extort money and minerals, use forced
labor, or commit other human rights abuses. Profits from these activities are often used to finance armed conflict.
Mining organizations are expected to conduct due diligence to avoid involvement with armed groups or their affiliates
53 GRI 14: Mining Sector 2024
through, for example, procuring minerals from, making payments to, or providing logistical assistance or equipment
to these groups [358].
Although the security practices commonly used by mining organizations safeguard mine workers and assets in
conflict-affected and high-risk areas, security personnel may sometimes be associated with human rights abuses.
ASM operators, Indigenous Peoples, and human rights defenders, particularly women, are often severely affected by
violence and harassment by security providers in these areas (see also topic 14.14 Security practices)
Organizations are also more likely to be implicated in corrupt practices, such as bribery and money laundering, in
conflict-affected and high-risk areas. Where financial flows such as taxes, fees, and royalties paid to governments are
not disclosed and remain opaque, these payments can end up financing conflict (see also topics 14.22 Anti-
corruption and 14.23 Payments to governments).
Reporting on conflict-affected and high-risk areas
If the organization has determined conflict-affected and high-risk areas to be a material topic, this sub-section lists the
disclosures identified as relevant for reporting on the topic by the mining sector.
STANDARD DISCLOSURE SECTOR
STANDARD
REF #
Management of the topic
GRI 3: Material Disclosure 3-3 Management of material topics 14.25.1
Topics 2021
Additional sector recommendations
• Describe the approach to ensuring adherence to international humanitarian
law when operating in conflict-affected and high-risk areas.
Additional sector disclosures
List the locations of operations in conflict-affected or high-risk areas and how these were identified.32 14.25.2
Describe the due diligence process applied for operations in, or when sourcing from, conflict-affected 14.25.3
and high-risk areas and whether it aligns with the OECD Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible
Supply Chains of Minerals from Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas.
For operations in conflict-affected or high-risk areas, report the potential negative impacts on workers 14.25.4
and local communities, including actions to prevent or mitigate the impacts.
References and resources
54 GRI 14: Mining Sector 2024
The authoritative instruments and references used in developing this topic, as well as resources that may be helpful
for reporting on conflict-affected and high-risk areas by the mining sector are listed in the Bibliography.
Glossary
This glossary provides definitions for terms used in this Standard. The organization is required to apply these
definitions when using the GRI Standards.
The definitions included in this glossary may contain terms that are further defined in the complete GRI Standards
Glossary. All defined terms are underlined. If a term is not defined in this glossary or in the complete GRI Standards
Glossary, definitions that are commonly used and understood apply.
baseline
B
starting point used for comparisons
Note: In the context of energy reporting, the baseline is the projected energy consumption
in the absence of any reduction activity.
basic salary
fixed, minimum amount paid to an employee for performing his or her duties
Note: Basic salary excludes any additional remuneration, such as payments for overtime
working or bonuses.
benefit
direct benefit provided in the form of financial contributions, care paid for by the organization, or
the reimbursement of expenses borne by the employee
Note: Redundancy payments over and above legal minimums, lay-off pay, extra
employment injury benefit, survivors’ benefits, and extra paid holiday entitlements
can also be included as a benefit.
business partner
entity with which the organization has some form of direct and formal engagement for the
purpose of meeting its business objectives
Source: Shift and Mazars LLP, UN Guiding Principles Reporting Framework, 2015; modified
Examples: affiliates, business-to-business customers, clients, first-tier suppliers, franchisees,
joint venture partners, investee companies in which the organization has a
shareholding position
Note: Business partners do not include subsidiaries and affiliates that the organization
controls.
business relationships
relationships that the organization has with business partners, with entities in its value chain
including those beyond the first tier, and with any other entities directly linked to its operations,
products, or services
Source: United Nations (UN), Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights:
Implementing the United Nations “Protect, Respect and Remedy” Framework, 2011;
modified
Note: Examples of other entities directly linked to the organization’s operations, products,
or services are a non-governmental organization with which the organization
delivers support to a local community or state security forces that protect the
organization’s facilities.
catchment
C
area of land from which all surface runoff and subsurface water flows through a sequence of
streams, rivers, aquifers, and lakes into the sea or another outlet at a single river mouth,
estuary, or delta
55 GRI 14: Mining Sector 2024
Source: Alliance for Water Stewardship (AWS), AWS International Water Stewardship
Standard, Version 1.0, 2014; modified
Note: Catchments include associated groundwater areas and might include portions of
waterbodies (such as lakes or rivers). In different parts of the world, catchments
are also referred to as ‘watersheds’ or ‘basins’ (or sub-basins).
child
person under the age of 15 years, or under the age of completion of compulsory schooling,
whichever is higher
Note 1: Exceptions can occur in certain countries where economies and educational
facilities are insufficiently developed, and a minimum age of 14 years applies.
These countries of exception are specified by the International Labour Organization
(ILO) in response to a special application by the country concerned and in
consultation with representative organizations of employers and workers.
Note 2: The ILO Minimum Age Convention, 1973, (No. 138), refers to both child labor and
young workers.
circularity measures
measures taken to retain the value of products, materials, and resources and redirect them
back to use for as long as possible with the lowest carbon and resource footprint possible, such
that fewer raw materials and resources are extracted and waste generation is prevented
close call
work-related incident where no injury or ill health occurs, but which has the potential to cause
these
Source: International Organization for Standardization. ISO 45001:2018. Occupational health
and safety management systems — Requirements with guidance for use. Geneva:
ISO, 2018; modified
Note: A ‘close call’ might also be referred to as a ‘near-miss’ or ‘near-hit’.
collective bargaining
all negotiations that take place between one or more employers or employers' organizations, on
the one hand, and one or more workers' organizations (e.g., trade unions), on the other, for
determining working conditions and terms of employment or for regulating relations between
employers and workers
Source: International Labour Organization (ILO), Collective Bargaining Convention, 1981
(No. 154); modified
community development program
plan that details actions to minimize, mitigate, or compensate for adverse social and/or
economic impacts, and/or to identify opportunities or actions to enhance positive impacts of a
project on the community
conflict of interest
situation where an individual is confronted with choosing between the requirements of their
function in the organization and their other personal or professional interests or responsibilities
corruption
‘abuse of entrusted power for private gain’, which can be instigated by individuals or
organizations
Source: Transparency International, Business Principles for Countering Bribery, 2011
Note: Corruption includes practices such as bribery, facilitation payments, fraud, extortion,
collusion, and money laundering. It also includes an offer or receipt of any gift, loan,
fee, reward, or other advantage to or from any person as an inducement to do
something that is dishonest, illegal, or a breach of trust in the conduct of the
enterprise’s business. This can include cash or in-kind benefits, such as free
goods, gifts, and holidays, or special personal services provided for the purpose of
56 GRI 14: Mining Sector 2024
an improper advantage, or that can result in moral pressure to receive such an
advantage.
direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions *
D
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from sources that are owned or controlled by the
organization
Examples: CO emissions from fuel consumption
2
Note: A GHG source is any physical unit or process that releases GHG into the
atmosphere.
* Please note this term will be updated following the effective date of GRI 102: Climate Change
2025 and GRI 103: Energy 2025, as of 1 January 2027. Please see GRI 102/103 for the updated
term.
discrimination
act and result of treating persons unequally by imposing unequal burdens or denying benefits
instead of treating each person fairly on the basis of individual merit
Note: Discrimination can also include harassment, defined as a course of comments or
actions that are unwelcome, or should reasonably be known to be unwelcome, to
the person towards whom they are addressed.
disposal
any operation which is not recovery, even where the operation has as a secondary consequence
the recovery of energy
Source: European Union (EU), Waste Framework Directive, 2008 (Directive 2008/98/EC)
Note: Disposal is the end-of-life management of discarded products, materials, and
resources in a sink or through a chemical or thermal transformation that makes
these products, materials, and resources unavailable for further use.
due diligence
process to identify, prevent, mitigate, and account for how the organization addresses its actual
and potential negative impacts
Source: Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), OECD
Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, 2011; modified
United Nations (UN), Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights:
Implementing the United Nations “Protect, Respect and Remedy” Framework, 2011;
modified
Note: See section 2.3 in GRI 1: Foundation 2021 for more information on ‘due diligence’.
effluent
E
treated or untreated wastewater that is discharged
Source: Alliance for Water Stewardship (AWS), AWS International Water Stewardship
Standard, Version 1.0, 2014
employee
individual who is in an employment relationship with the organization according to national law
or practice
energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions *
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions that result from the generation of purchased or acquired
electricity, heating, cooling, and steam consumed by the organization
* Please note this term will be updated following the effective date of GRI 102: Climate Change
2025 and GRI 103: Energy 2025, as of 1 January 2027. Please see GRI 102/103 for the updated
term.
exposure
quantity of time spent at or the nature of contact with certain environments that possess various
57 GRI 14: Mining Sector 2024
degrees and kinds of hazard, or proximity to a condition that might cause injury or ill health (e.g.,
chemicals, radiation, high pressure, noise, fire, explosives)
financial assistance
F
direct or indirect financial benefits that do not represent a transaction of goods and services, but
which are an incentive or compensation for actions taken, the cost of an asset, or expenses
incurred
Note: The provider of financial assistance does not expect a direct financial return from
the assistance offered.
forced or compulsory labor
all work and service that is exacted from any person under the menace of any penalty and for
which the said person has not offered herself or himself voluntarily
Source: International Labour Organization (ILO), Forced Labour Convention, 1930 (No. 29);
modified
Note 1: The most extreme examples of forced or compulsory labor are slave labor and
bonded labor, but debts can also be used as a means of maintaining workers in a
state of forced labor.
Note 2: Indicators of forced labor include withholding identity papers, requiring compulsory
deposits, and compelling workers, under threat of firing, to work extra hours to
which they have not previously agreed.
formal joint management–worker health and safety committee
committee composed of management and worker representatives, whose function is integrated
into an organizational structure, and which operates according to agreed written policies,
procedures, and rules, and helps facilitate worker participation and consultation on matters of
occupational health and safety
freedom of association
right of employers and workers to form, to join and to run their own organizations without prior
authorization or interference by the state or any other entity
freshwater
water with concentration of total dissolved solids equal to or below 1,000 mg/L
Source: Environmental management — Water footprint — Principles, requirements and
guidelines. Geneva: ISO, 2014; modified
United States Geological Survey (USGS), Water Science Glossary of Terms,
water.usgs.gov/edu/dictionary.html, accessed on 1 June 2018; modified
World Health Organization (WHO), Guidelines for Drinking-water Quality, 2017;
modified
greenhouse gas (GHG) *
G
gas that contributes to the greenhouse effect by absorbing infrared radiation
* Please note this term will be updated following the effective date of GRI 102: Climate Change
2025 and GRI 103: Energy 2025, as of 1 January 2027. Please see GRI 102/103 for the updated
term.
grievance
perceived injustice evoking an individual’s or a group’s sense of entitlement, which may be
based on law, contract, explicit or implicit promises, customary practice, or general notions of
fairness of aggrieved communities
Source: United Nations (UN), Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights:
Implementing the United Nations “Protect, Respect and Remedy” Framework, 2011
grievance mechanism
routinized process through which grievances can be raised and remedy can be sought
Source: United Nations (UN), Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights:
58 GRI 14: Mining Sector 2024
Implementing the United Nations “Protect, Respect and Remedy” Framework, 2011;
modified
Note: See Guidance to Disclosure 2-25 in GRI 2: General Disclosures 2021 for more
information on ‘grievance mechanism’.
groundwater
water that is being held in, and that can be recovered from, an underground formation
Source: International Organization for Standardization. ISO 14046:2014. Environmental
management — Water footprint — Principles, requirements and guidelines. Geneva:
ISO, 2014; modified
hazardous waste
H
waste that possesses any of the characteristics contained in Annex III of the Basel Convention,
or that is considered to be hazardous by national legislation
Source: United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), Basel Convention on the Control
of Transboundary Movements of Hazardous Wastes and Their Disposal, 1989
high-consequence work-related injury
work-related injury that results in a fatality or in an injury from which the worker cannot, does not,
or is not expected to recover fully to pre-injury health status within six months
human rights
rights inherent to all human beings, which include, at a minimum, the rights set out in the United
Nations (UN) International Bill of Human Rights and the principles concerning fundamental
rights set out in the International Labour Organization (ILO) Declaration on Fundamental
Principles and Rights at Work
Source: United Nations (UN), Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights:
Implementing the United Nations “Protect, Respect and Remedy” Framework, 2011;
modified
Note: See Guidance to 2-23-b-i in GRI 2: General Disclosures 2021 for more information
on ‘human rights’.
impact
I
effect the organization has or could have on the economy, environment, and people, including on
their human rights, which in turn can indicate its contribution (negative or positive) to sustainable
development
Note 1: Impacts can be actual or potential, negative or positive, short-term or long-term,
intended or unintended, and reversible or irreversible.
Note 2: See section 2.1 in GRI 1: Foundation 2021 for more information on ‘impact’.
indicator of diversity
indicator of diversity for which the organization gathers data
Examples: age, ancestry and ethnic origin, citizenship, creed, disability, gender
Indigenous Peoples
Indigenous Peoples are generally identified as:
• tribal peoples in independent countries whose social, cultural and economic conditions
distinguish them from other sections of the national community, and whose status is
regulated wholly or partially by their own customs or traditions or by special laws or
regulations;
• peoples in independent countries who are regarded as indigenous on account of their
descent from the populations which inhabited the country, or a geographical region to which
the country belongs, at the time of conquest or colonization or the establishment of present
state boundaries and who, irrespective of their legal status, retain some or all of their own
social, economic, cultural and political institutions.
Source: International Labour Organization (ILO), Indigenous and Tribal Peoples Convention,
59 GRI 14: Mining Sector 2024
1989 (No. 169)
infrastructure
facilities built primarily to provide a public service or good rather than a commercial purpose,
and from which the organization does not seek to gain direct economic benefit
Examples: hospitals, roads, schools, water supply facilities
local community
L
individuals or groups of individuals living or working in areas that are affected or that could be
affected by the organization’s activities
Note: The local community can range from those living adjacent to the organization’s
operations to those living at a distance.
local supplier
organization or person that provides a product or service to the reporting organization, and that is
based in the same geographic market as the reporting organization (that is, no transnational
payments are made to a local supplier)
Note: The geographic definition of ‘local’ can include the community surrounding
operations, a region within a country or a country.
material topics
M
topics that represent the organization’s most significant impacts on the economy, environment,
and people, including impacts on their human rights
Note: See section 2.2 in GRI 1: Foundation 2021 and section 1 in GRI 3: Material Topics
2021 for more information on ‘material topics’.
mitigation
action(s) taken to reduce the extent of a negative impact
Source: United Nations (UN), The Corporate Responsibility to Respect Human Rights: An
Interpretive Guide, 2012; modified
Note: The mitigation of an actual negative impact refers to actions taken to reduce the
severity of the negative impact that has occurred, with any residual impact needing
remediation. The mitigation of a potential negative impact refers to actions taken to
reduce the likelihood of the negative impact occurring.
occupational health and safety management system
O
set of interrelated or interacting elements to establish an occupational health and safety policy
and objectives, and to achieve those objectives
Source: International Labour Organization (ILO), Guidelines on Occupational Safety and
Health Management Systems, ILO-OSH 2001, 2001
other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions *
indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions not included in energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG
emissions that occur outside of the organization, including both upstream and downstream
emissions
* Please note this term will be updated following the effective date of GRI 102: Climate Change
2025 and GRI 103: Energy 2025, as of 1 January 2027. Please see GRI 102/103 for the updated
term.
parental leave
P
leave granted to men and women employees on the grounds of the birth of a child
preparation for reuse
checking, cleaning, or repairing operations, by which products or components of products that
have become waste are prepared to be put to use for the same purpose for which they were
conceived
Source: European Union (EU), Waste Framework Directive, 2008 (Directive 2008/98/EC);
60 GRI 14: Mining Sector 2024
modified
recovery
R
operation wherein products, components of products, or materials that have become waste are
prepared to fulfill a purpose in place of new products, components, or materials that would
otherwise have been used for that purpose
Source: United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), Basel Convention on the Control
of Transboundary Movements of Hazardous Wastes and Their Disposal, 1989;
modified
Examples: preparation for reuse, recycling
Note: In the context of waste reporting, recovery operations do not include energy recovery.
recycling
reprocessing of products or components of products that have become waste, to make new
materials
Sources: United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), Basel Convention on the Control
of Transboundary Movements of Hazardous Wastes and Their Disposal, 1989;
modified
reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions *
decrease in greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions or increase in removal or storage of GHG from
the atmosphere, relative to baseline emissions
Note: Primary effects will result in GHG reductions, as will some secondary effects. An
initiative’s total GHG reductions are quantified as the sum of its associated primary
effect(s) and any significant secondary effects (which may involve decreases or
countervailing increases in GHG emissions).
* Please note this term will be updated following the effective date of GRI 102: Climate Change
2025 and GRI 103: Energy 2025, as of 1 January 2027. Please see GRI 102/103 for the updated
term.
remedy / remediation
means to counteract or make good a negative impact or provision of remedy
Source: United Nations (UN), The Corporate Responsibility to Respect Human Rights: An
Interpretive Guide, 2012; modified
Examples: apologies, financial or non-financial compensation, prevention of harm through
injunctions or guarantees of non-repetition, punitive sanctions (whether criminal or
administrative, such as fines), restitution, restoration, rehabilitation
remuneration
basic salary plus additional amounts paid to a worker
Note: Examples of additional amounts paid to a worker can include those based on years
of service, bonuses including cash and equity such as stocks and shares, benefit
payments, overtime, time owed, and any additional allowances, such as
transportation, living and childcare allowances.
renewable energy source
energy source that is capable of being replenished in a short time through ecological cycles or
agricultural processes
Examples: biomass, geothermal, hydro, solar, wind
reporting period
specific time period covered by the reported information
Examples: fiscal year, calendar year
runoff
20 Worker days idle is calculated as the product of days idle and number of workers involved.
61 GRI 14: Mining Sector 2024
part of precipitation that flows towards a river on the ground surface (i.e., surface runoff) or within
the soil (i.e., subsurface flow)
Source: United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO),
UNESCO International Glossary of Hydrology, 2012; modified
seawater
S
water in a sea or in an ocean
Source: International Organization for Standardization. ISO 14046:2014. Environmental
management — Water footprint — Principles, requirements and guidelines. Geneva:
ISO, 2014; modified
security personnel
individuals employed for the purposes of guarding property of the organization; crowd control;
loss prevention; and escorting persons, goods, and valuables
services supported
services that provide a public benefit either through direct payment of operating costs or through
staffing the facility or service with an organization’s own employees
Note: Public benefit can also include public services.
severity (of an impact)
The severity of an actual or potential negative impact is determined by its scale (i.e., how grave
the impact is), scope (i.e., how widespread the impact is), and irremediable character (how hard
it is to counteract or make good the resulting harm).
Source: Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), OECD Due
Diligence Guidance for Responsible Business Conduct, 2018; modified
United Nations (UN), The Corporate Responsibility to Respect Human Rights: An
Interpretive Guide, 2012; modified
Note: See section 1 in GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 for more information on ‘severity’.
significant air emission
air emission regulated under international conventions and/or national laws or regulations
Note: Significant air emissions include those listed on environmental permits for the
organization’s operations.
significant operational change
alteration to the organization’s pattern of operations that can potentially have significant positive
or negative impacts on workers performing the organization’s activities
Examples: closures, expansions, mergers, new openings, outsourcing of operations,
restructuring, sale of all or part of the organization, takeovers
spill
accidental release of a hazardous substance that can affect human health, land, vegetation,
waterbodies, and groundwater
stakeholder
individual or group that has an interest that is affected or could be affected by the organization’s
activities
Source: Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), OECD Due
Diligence Guidance for Responsible Business Conduct, 2018; modified
Examples: business partners, civil society organizations, consumers, customers, employees
and other workers, governments, local communities, non-governmental
organizations, shareholders and other investors, suppliers, trade unions,
vulnerable groups
Note: See section 2.4 in GRI 1: Foundation 2021 for more information on ‘stakeholder’.
62 GRI 14: Mining Sector 2024
supplier
entity upstream from the organization (i.e., in the organization’s supply chain), which provides a
product or service that is used in the development of the organization’s own products or services
Examples: brokers, consultants, contractors, distributors, franchisees, home workers,
independent contractors, licensees, manufacturers, primary producers, sub-
contractors, wholesalers
Note: A supplier can have a direct business relationship with the organization (often
referred to as a first-tier supplier) or an indirect business relationship.
supply chain
range of activities carried out by entities upstream from the organization, which provide products
or services that are used in the development of the organization’s own products or services
surface water
water that occurs naturally on the Earth’s surface in ice sheets, ice caps, glaciers, icebergs,
bogs, ponds, lakes, rivers, and streams
Source: CDP, CDP Water Security Reporting Guidance, 2018; modified
sustainable development / sustainability
development that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future
generations to meet their own needs
Source: World Commission on Environment and Development, Our Common Future, 1987
Note: The terms ‘sustainability’ and ‘sustainable development’ are used interchangeably
in the GRI Standards.
third-party water
T
municipal water suppliers and municipal wastewater treatment plants, public or private utilities,
and other organizations involved in the provision, transport, treatment, disposal, or use of water
and effluent
value chain
V
range of activities carried out by the organization, and by entities upstream and downstream
from the organization, to bring the organization’s products or services from their conception to
their end use
Note 1: Entities upstream from the organization (e.g., suppliers) provide products or
services that are used in the development of the organization’s own products or
services. Entities downstream from the organization (e.g., distributors, customers)
receive products or services from the organization.
Note 2: The value chain includes the supply chain.
vulnerable group
group of individuals with a specific condition or characteristic (e.g., economic, physical, political,
social) that could experience negative impacts as a result of the organization’s activities more
severely than the general population
Examples: children and youth; elderly persons; ex-combatants; HIV/AIDS-affected households;
human rights defenders; Indigenous Peoples; internally displaced persons;
migrant workers and their families; national or ethnic, religious and linguistic
minorities; persons who might be discriminated against based on their sexual
orientation, gender identity, gender expression, or sex characteristics (e.g., lesbian,
gay, bisexual, transgender, intersex); persons with disabilities; refugees or
returning refugees; women
Note: Vulnerabilities and impacts can differ by gender.
waste
W
anything that the holder discards, intends to discard, or is required to discard
21 Organizations should report the ratio of the basic salary and remuneration for priority areas of equality: women to men, minor to major ethnic groups,
and other relevant equality areas (as appropriate based on the organization’s local operating context and legal framework).
63 GRI 14: Mining Sector 2024
Source: United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), Basel Convention on the Control
of Transboundary Movements of Hazardous Wastes and Their Disposal, 1989
Note 1: Waste can be defined according to the national legislation at the point of
generation.
Note 2: A holder can be the reporting organization, an entity in the organization’s value
chain upstream or downstream (e.g., supplier or consumer), or a waste
management organization, among others.
water consumption
sum of all water that has been withdrawn and incorporated into products, used in the production
of crops or generated as waste, has evaporated, transpired, or been consumed by humans or
livestock, or is polluted to the point of being unusable by other users, and is therefore not
released back to surface water, groundwater, seawater, or a third party over the course of the
reporting period
Source: CDP, CDP Water Security Reporting Guidance, 2018; modified
Note: Water consumption includes water that has been stored during the reporting period
for use or discharge in a subsequent reporting period.
water discharge
sum of effluents, used water, and unused water released to surface water, groundwater,
seawater, or a third party, for which the organization has no further use, over the course of the
reporting period
Note 1: Water can be released into the receiving waterbody either at a defined discharge
point (point-source discharge) or dispersed over land in an undefined manner
(non-point-source discharge).
Note 2: Water discharge can be authorized (in accordance with discharge consent) or
unauthorized (if discharge consent is exceeded).
water stress
ability, or lack thereof, to meet the human and ecological demand for water
Source: CEO Water Mandate, Corporate Water Disclosure Guidelines, 2014
Note 1: Water stress can refer to the availability, quality, or accessibility of water.
Note 2: Water stress is based on subjective elements and is assessed differently
depending on societal values, such as the suitability of water for drinking or the
requirements to be afforded to ecosystems.
Note 3: Water stress in an area may be measured at catchment level at a minimum.
water withdrawal
sum of all water drawn from surface water, groundwater, seawater, or a third party for any use
over the course of the reporting period
work-related hazard
source or situation with the potential to cause injury or ill health
Source: International Labour Organization (ILO) Guidelines on Occupational Safety and
Health Management Systems, 2001; modified
International Organization for Standardization. ISO 45001:2018. Occupational health
and safety management systems — Requirements with guidance for use. Geneva:
ISO, 2018; modified
Definitions that are based on or come from the ISO 14046:2014 and ISO 45001:2018 standards
are reproduced with the permission of the International Organization for Standardization, ISO.
Copyright remains with ISO.
Note: Hazards can be:
• physical (e.g., radiation, temperature extremes, constant loud noise, spills on
22 Politically exposed person is defined by the Financial Action Taskforce (FATF) as 'an individual who is or has been entrusted with a prominent public
function' [323].
64 GRI 14: Mining Sector 2024
floors or tripping hazards, unguarded machinery, faulty electrical equipment);
• ergonomic (e.g., improperly adjusted workstations and chairs, awkward
movements, vibration);
• chemical (e.g., exposure to solvents, carbon monoxide, flammable materials, or
pesticides);
• biological (e.g., exposure to blood and bodily fluids, fungi, bacteria, viruses, or
insect bites);
• psychosocial (e.g., verbal abuse, harassment, bullying);
• related to work-organization (e.g., excessive workload demands, shift work, long
hours, night work, workplace violence).
work-related incident
occurrence arising out of or in the course of work that could or does result in injury or ill health
Source: International Organization for Standardization. ISO 45001:2018. Occupational health
and safety management systems — Requirements with guidance for use. Geneva:
ISO, 2018; modified
Definitions that are based on or come from the ISO 14046:2014 and ISO 45001:2018 standards
are reproduced with the permission of the International Organization for Standardization, ISO.
Copyright remains with ISO.
Note 1: Incidents might be due to, for example, electrical problems, explosion, fire; overflow,
overturning, leakage, flow; breakage, bursting, splitting; loss of control, slipping,
stumbling and falling; body movement without stress; body movement under/with
stress; shock, fright; workplace violence or harassment (e.g., sexual harassment).
Note 2: An incident that results in injury or ill health is often referred to as an ‘accident’. An
incident that has the potential to result in injury or ill health but where none occurs is
often referred to as a ‘close call', ‘near-miss’, or ‘near-hit’.
work-related injury or ill health
negative impacts on health arising from exposure to hazards at work
Source: International Labour Organization (ILO), Guidelines on Occupational Safety and
Health Management Systems, ILO-OSH 2001, 2001; modified
Note 1: ‘Ill health’ indicates damage to health and includes diseases, illnesses, and
disorders. The terms ‘disease’, ‘illness’, and ‘disorder’ are often used
interchangeably and refer to conditions with specific symptoms and diagnoses.
Note 2: Work-related injuries and ill health are those that arise from exposure to hazards at
work. Other types of incident can occur that are not connected with the work itself.
For example, the following incidents are not considered to be work related:
• a worker suffers a heart attack while at work that is unconnected with work;
• a worker driving to or from work is injured in a car accident (where driving is not
part of the work, and where the transport has not been organized by the
employer);
• a worker with epilepsy has a seizure at work that is unconnected with work.
Note 3: Traveling for work: Injuries and ill health that occur while a worker is traveling are
work related if, at the time of the injury or ill health, the worker was engaged in work
activities ‘in the interest of the employer’. Examples of such activities include
traveling to and from customer contacts; conducting job tasks; and entertaining or
being entertained to transact, discuss, or promote business (at the direction of the
employer).
Working at home: Injuries and ill health that occur when working at home are work
related if the injury or ill health occurs while the worker is performing work at home,
and the injury or ill health is directly related to the performance of work rather than
the general home environment or setting.
Mental illness: A mental illness is considered to be work related if it has been
23 This additional sector disclosure is based on Requirement 2.4. Contracts in the EITI Standard 2023. Definitions for contracts and licenses can be
notified voluntarily by the worker and is supported by an opinion from a licensed
found in the EITI Standard 2023 [333].
24 This additional sector disclosure is based on Requirement 2.5. Beneficial ownership in the EITI Standard 2023. The definition for beneficial ownership
can be found in the EITI Standard 2023. Publicly listed organizations or wholly-owned subsidiaries or a publicly listed organization are exempt from
reporting information about the beneficial owners of their joint ventures [333].
65 GRI 14: Mining Sector 2024
healthcare professional with appropriate training and experience stating that the
illness is work related.
For more guidance on determining ‘work-relatedness’, see the United States
Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Determination of work-relatedness
1904.5, https://www.osha.gov/pls/ oshaweb/owadisp.show_document?
p_table=STANDARDS&p_id=9636, accessed on 1 June 2018.
Note 4: The terms ‘occupational’ and ‘work-related’ are often used interchangeably.
worker
person that performs work for the organization
Examples: employees, agency workers, apprentices, contractors, home workers, interns, self-
employed persons, sub-contractors, volunteers, and persons working for
organizations other than the reporting organization, such as for suppliers
Note: In the GRI Standards, in some cases, it is specified whether a particular subset of
workers is required to be used.
worker consultation
seeking of workers’ views before making a decision
Note 1: Worker consultation might be carried out through workers’ representatives.
Note 2: Consultation is a formal process, whereby management takes the views of workers
into account when making a decision. Therefore, consultation needs to take place
before the decision is made. It is essential to provide timely information to workers
or their representatives in order for them to provide meaningful and effective input
before decisions are made. Genuine consultation involves dialogue.
Note 3: Worker participation and worker consultation are two distinct terms with specific
meanings. See definition of ‘worker participation’.
worker participation
workers’ involvement in decision-making
Note 1: Worker participation might be carried out through workers’ representatives.
Note 2: Worker participation and worker consultation are two distinct terms with specific
meanings. See definition of ‘worker consultation’.
worker representative
person who is recognized as such under national law or practice, whether they are:
• a trade union representative, namely, a representative designated or elected by trade unions
or by members of such unions; or
• an elected representative, namely, a representative who is freely elected by the workers of
the undertaking in accordance with provisions of national laws, regulations, or collective
agreements, whose functions do not include activities which are recognized as the exclusive
prerogative of trade unions in the country concerned.
Source: International Labour Organization (ILO), Workers' Representatives Convention,
1971 (No. 135)
Bibliography
This section lists authoritative intergovernmental instruments and additional references used in developing this
Standard, as well as resources that the organization can consult.
Introduction
1. European Communities, NACE Rev.2, Statistical classification of economic activities in the European
Community (NACE), Eurostat, Methodologies and Working Papers, 2008.
2. Executive Office of the President, Office of Management and Budget, North American Industry Classification
66 GRI 14: Mining Sector 2024
System (NAICS), 2017.
3. FTSE Russell, ICB Structure. Taxonomy Overview, 2019.
4. International Institute for Environment and Development (IIED), Artisanal and small-scale mining: Challenges and
opportunities, 2003.
5. S&P Dow Jones Indices and MSCI Inc., Revisions to the Global Industry Classification Standard (GICS®)
Structure, 2018.
6. Sustainable Accounting Standards Boards (SASB), Sustainable Industry Classification System® (SICS®),
org/find-your-industry/, accessed on 24 November 2023.
7. United Nations, International Standard Industrial Classification of All Economic Activities, Revision 4, Statistical
Papers Series M No. 4/Rev.4, 2008.
8. World Bank, Mining Together, Large-scale Mining Meets Artisanal Mining, 2009.
Sector profile
Authoritative instruments:
9. Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), Due Diligence Guidance for Meaningful
Stakeholder Engagement in the Extractives Sector, 2015.
10. Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible
Supply Chains of Minerals from Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas, 2016.
11. United Nations (UN) Resolution, Transforming our world: the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, 2015
(A/RES/70/1).
Additional references:
12. Danish Institute for Human Rights, Towards Gender-Responsive Implementation of Extractive Industries
Projects, 2019.
13. E. Lebre, M. Stringer, K. Svobodova, J. Owen, D. Kemp, C. Cote, A. Arratia-Solar, and R. Valenta, “The social and
environmental complexities of extracting energy transition metals,” Nature, 24 September 2020.
14. Georgetown Institute for Women, Peace and Security and Peace Research Institute Oslo, Women, Peace, and
Security Index 2021/22: Tracking sustainable peace through inclusion, justice, and security for women, 2021.
15. IndustriAll, Risks of gender-based violence and harassment: union responses in the mining, garments and
electronics sectors, 2022.
16. Intergovernmental Forum on Mining, Minerals, Metals and Sustainable Development (IGF) Global Review:
Integrating Gender Into Mining Impact Assessments, 2022.
17. International Conference on the Great Lakes Region (ICGLR), The ICGLR Regional Initiative against the Illegal
Exploitation of Natural Resources (RINR) and other Certification Mechanisms in the Great Lakes Region:
Lessons Learned and Best practices, 2013.
18. International Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM), Diversity, Equity and Inclusion: Position Statement, 2023.
19. International Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM), Role of mining in national economies, 2016.
20. International Energy Agency (IEA), The Role of Critical Minerals in Clean Energy Transitions, 2021.
21. International Finance Corporation (IFC), World Bank, The Business Case for Gender-Responsive Climate-Smart
Mining, 2022.
22. International Institute for Sustainable Development (IISD), Green Conflict Minerals: The fuels of conflict in the
transition to a low-carbon economy, 2018.
23. International Labour Organization (ILO), Women in Mining: towards gender equality, 2021.
24. International Monetary Fund (IMF), Fiscal Transparency Initiative: Integration Of Natural Resource Management
Issues, 2019.
25. J. Owen, D. Kemp, J. Harris, A. Lechner, and E. Lebre, “Fast track to failure? Energy transition minerals and the
future of consultation and consent,” Energy Research & Social Science, July 2022.
26. OxFam, Australian Aid, A Guide to Gender Impact Assessment for the Extractive Industries, 2017.
2257 T.hisW adodmitieonna la snedct oMr riencionmgm, eSntdaaktioenh ios lbdaesre dS otna tReemqueirnemt oennt 2Im.6 pSlteatme peanrttiicnipga tGione inn dtheer E-RITeI Sstpanodnasrdiv 2e02 D3 u[3e4 4D].iligence and ensuring
26 Thisth aedd hitiuomnaal sne crtiogrh retsc oomfm weondmateionn iisn btahsee dM onin Reerqaul irSemupenpt l4y. 1C Choaminprse,h e2n0s1iv9e. disclosure of taxes and revenues and Requirement 4.7. Level of
disaggregation in the EITI Standard 2023. EITI considers payments and revenues material if their omission or misstatement could significantly affect
28. World Bank, Minerals for Climate Action: The Mineral Intensity of the Clean Energy Transition, 2020.
the comprehensiveness of the disclosures. A definition for project can be found in the EITI Standard 2023 [344].
2279 T.heW EIoTIr lSdta Nnduacrdl e20a2r3 A spsescoifcieisa tthioatn i,n Scouusnttraieins iinmgpl eGmleonbtiangl Bthee sEtI TPI,r tahce tmicueltsi- sitnak Uehroaldneiru gmro uMp ifnoirn thge aconudn tPryr aogcreeesss winhgic hP prainymciepnltes sa nfdor
revenues are material, including appropriate materiality definitions and thresholds [344]. The organization can use the relevant threshold set by the
Managing Radiation, Health and Safety, Waste and the Environment,
EITI multi-stakeholder group. If there is no relevant threshold set, the organization can use a threshold equivalent to that established for the European
Uniohnt,t wphsi:c/h/ wspoerclidfi-ens uthcalte ‘Paar.yomregn/tos,u wr-haetshseor ac isaintigolen p/payumbelinct aotr iao nsesr/ietes cohf rneilcataeld- ppoaysmiteiontns,- pbealpowe rEsU/bR e10s0t-,0p0r0a wcittihcine t-hien -reuproarntiniug mpe-riod can
be excluded’ [335].
28 This additional sector disclosure is based on Requirement 4.2 Sale of the state’s share of production or other revenues collected in kind in the EITI
Standard 2023 [344] and EITI Reporting Guidelines for companies buying oil, gas and minerals from governments, 2020 [345].
67 GRI 14: Mining Sector 2024
mining.aspx, accessed on 24 November 2023.
Resources:
30. Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI), Requirement 2.6: State participation and state-owned
enterprises, EITI Standard, 2020.
31. GRI and UN Global Compact, Integrating the SDGs into corporate reporting: A practical guide, 2018.
32. GRI, Linking the SDGs and the GRI Standards, updated regularly.
33. Intergovernmental Forum on Mining, Minerals, Metals, and Sustainable Development (IGF), Global Review:
Integrating Gender Into Mining Impact Assessments, 2022.
34. United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), Mapping Mining to the SDGs: An Atlas, 2016.
Topic 14.1 GHG emissions
Authoritative instruments:
35. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), Climate Change 2022: Impacts, Adaptation and
Vulnerability, 2022.
36. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), Climate Change 2014: Synthesis Report, 2014.
37. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), Climate Change 2021: The Physical Science Basis, 2021.
38. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), In: Climate Change 2014: Mitigation of Climate Change.
Contribution of Working Group III to the Fifth Assessment Report, 2014.
39. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), Sixth Assessment Report—Working Group 1 Contribution,
2021.
40. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), Special Report on Climate Change and Land, 2019.
41. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), Special Report on the impacts of global warming of 1.5°C
above pre-industrial levels and related global greenhouse gas emission pathways, 2019.
42. United Nations, Framework Convention on Climate Change, The Paris Agreement, 2016.
Additional references:
43. M. Azadi, S. A. Northey, S. H. Ali, and M. Edraki, Transparency on greenhouse gas emissions from mining to
enable climate change mitigation, 2020.
44. Bachner et. al, ‘Risk assessment of the low-carbon transition of Austria’s steel and electricity sectors’,
Environmental Innovation and Societal Transitions, 2020.
45. Ceres, Benchmarking Methane and Other GHG Emissions, 2021.
46. ESI Africa, How mining plans to drive down carbon emissions,
https://www.esi-africa.com/business-and-markets/how-mining-plans-to-drive-down-carbon-emissions/,
accessed on 24 November 2023.
47. International Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM), Adapting to a changing climate, 2019.
48. International Energy Agency (IEA), Sustainable and responsible development of minerals,
https://www.iea.org/reports/the-role-of-critical-minerals-in-clean-energy-transitions/sustainable-and-
responsible-development-of-minerals, accessed on 24 November 2023.
49. International Finance Corporation (IFC), Environmental, Health, and Safety Guidelines for Mining, 2007.
50. Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, Aligning policies for a low-carbon economy, 2015.
51. Sonter, Laura J et. al. Mining drives extensive deforestation in the Brazilian Amazon, 2017.
52. United States Energy Information Administration (EIA), How much carbon dioxide is produced per kilowatthour of
U.S. electricity generation?, https://www.eia.gov/tools/faqs/faq.php?id=74&t=11, accessed on 24 November
2023.
53. World Steel, Climate change and the production of iron and steel, 2021.
Resources:
54. Greenhouse Gas Protocol, Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard, 2011.
55. Greenhouse Gas Protocol, Global Warming Potential Values, 2015.
56. Greenhouse Gas Protocol, Land Sector and Removals Guidance, 2023.
57. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories:
Reference Manual: Land-use change and forestry, 1996.
58. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), Good Practice Guidance and Uncertainty Management in
National Greenhouse Gas Inventories, 2001.
68 GRI 14: Mining Sector 2024
59. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), Good Practice Guidance for Land Use, Land-Use Change
and Forestry, 2003.
60. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), 2019 Refinement to the 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National
Greenhouse Gas Inventories Volume 4 Agriculture, Forestry and Other Land Use, 2019.
61. Mining Association of Canada, Towards Sustainable Mining (TSM) Climate Change Protocol, 2021.
62. Science-Based Targets, Science-Based Target Setting Manual, version 4.1, 2020.
Topic 14.2 Climate adaptation and resilience
Authoritative instruments:
63. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), Global Warming of 1.5°C, 2018.
64. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), Sixth Assessment Report—Working Group 1 Contribution,
2021.
65. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), Sixth Assessment Report – Working Group 2, Climate
Change 2022: Impacts, Adaptation and Vulnerability, 2022.
66. International Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM), Mitigating GHG emissions and building resilience,
https://www.icmm.com/en-gb/environment/climate-change/mitigate-ghg-emissions, accessed on 24 November
2023.
67. United Nations, Framework Convention on Climate Change, The Paris Agreement, 2016.
Additional references:
68. Business and Human Rights Resource Center, Transition Minerals Tracker: Global analysis of human rights in
the energy transition.
69. International Energy Agency (IEA), The Role of Critical Minerals in Clean Energy Transitions, 2021.
70. International Finance Corporation (IFC), World Bank, The Business Case for Gender-Responsive Climate-Smart
Mining, 2022.
71. Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), Mining and Green Growth in the EECCA
Region, 2019.
72. M. Pelling, Adaptation to Climate Change: From Resilience to Transformation, 2011.
73. Responsible Mining Foundation (RMF), Beyond emissions reductions: climate change and mining, 2021.
74. United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), International Resource Panel (IRP), Metal Recycling:
Opportunities, Limits, Infrastructure, 2013.
75. United States Agency for International Development (USAID), Mining and the green energy transition, 2021.
76. World Bank, Climate-Smart Mining: Minerals for Climate Action,
https://www.worldbank.org/en/topic/extractiveindustries/brief/climate-smart-mining-minerals-for-climate-action,
accessed on 24 November 2023.
77. World Wildlife Foundation (WWF), Boom in Raw Materials: Between Profits and Losses, 2018.
Resources:
78. Mining Association of Canada, Towards Sustainable Mining (TSM) Guide on Climate Change Adaptation for the
Mining Sector, 2021.
79. Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosure (TCFD), Guidance on Climate-related Metrics, Targets, and
Transition Plans, 2021.
80. Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosure (TCFD), Guidance on Scenario Analysis for Non-Financial
Companies, 2020.
81. Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosure (TCFD), Recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-
related Financial Disclosure, 2017.
82. Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosure (TCFD), The Use of Scenario Analysis in Disclosure of
Climate-Related Risks and Opportunities, 2017.
Topic 14.3 Air emissions
References:
83. Australian Government Department of Agriculture, Water and the Environment, Australian National Pollutant
IInnvveennttoorryy,, hhttttpp::////wwwwww..nnppii..ggoovv..aauu//,, aacccceesssseedd oonn 2244 NNoovveemmbbeerr 22002233..
84. Australian New South Wales Government, Mine dust and you,
69 GRI 14: Mining Sector 2024
https://www.health.nsw.gov.au/environment/factsheets/Pages/mine-dust-and-you.aspx, accessed on 24
November 2023.
85. Q. B. Tran, M. Lohitnavy, and T. Phenrat, ‘Assessing potential hydrogen cyanide exposure from cyanide-
contaminated mine tailing management practices in Thailand's gold mining’, Journal of Environmental
Management, 1 November 2019.
86. United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), Managing mining for sustainable development, 2018.
87. United Nations Economic Commission for Europe (UNECE), Air pollution, ecosystems and biodiversity,
https://unece.org/air-pollution-ecosystems-and-biodiversity, accessed on 24 November 2023.
88. United States Environmental Protection Agency, Mining (except Oil and Gas) Sector (NAICS 212),
https://www.epa.gov/regulatory-information-sector/mining-except-oil-and-gas-sector-naics-212, accessed on 24
November 2023.
89. World Health Organization (WHO), Air pollution and child health: Prescribing clean air, advance copy, 2018.
90. World Health Organization (WHO), Air pollution, who.int/health-topics/air-pollution, accessed on 24 November
2023.
91. World Health Organization (WHO), Ambient Air Pollution: A Global Assessment of Exposure and Burden of
Disease, 2016.
Resources:
92. Initiative for Responsible Mining Assurance (IRMA), Standard for Responsible Mining, 2018.
93. International Finance Corporation (IFC), Environmental, Health, and Safety Guidelines for Mining, 2007.
94. The Cyanide Code, The International Cyanide Management Code For the Manufacture, Transport, and Use of
Cyanide in the Production of Gold, https://cyanidecode.org/the-cyanide-code/, accessed on 24 November 2023.
Topic 14.4 Biodiversity
Authoritative instruments:
95. Convention on Biological Diversity, Mainstreaming of Biodiversity into the Energy and Mining Sectors, 2018.
96. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), Climate Change and Biodiversity, 2002.
97. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), Climate Change and Land, 2019.
98. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), Sixth Assessment Report—Working Group 1 Contribution,
2021.
99. United Nations Environmental Programme (UNEP), Convention on Biological Diversity, 1992.
Additional references:
100.Alliance for Responsible Mining (ARM), Forest-Smart Artisanal and Small-Scale Mining Standard, 2019.
101.Blum, Stewart, and Schroeder, Effects of large-scale gold mining on migratory behavior of a large herbivore,
2015.
102.Convention on Biological Diversity, Mainstreaming of Biodiversity into the Energy and Mining Sectors, 2018.
103.Cross Sector Biodiversity Initiative (CSBI), A cross sector guide for implementing the Mitigation Hierarchy, 2015.
104.Cross Sector Biodiversity Initiative (CSBI), Homepage, http://www.csbi.org.uk/, accessed on 24 November 2023.
105.International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN), Deep-sea mining,
https://www.iucn.org/resources/issues-brief/deep-sea-mining, accessed on 24 November 2023.
106.International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN), Homepage, icun.org, accessed on 24 November 2023.
107.Mongabay, Elephant corridors impacted as mining expands in Jharkhand,
https://india.mongabay.com/2022/02/elephant-corridors-impacted-as-mining-expands-in-jharkhand/, accessed
on 24 November 2023.
108.United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), Moving the global mining industry towards biodiversity
awareness,
https://www.unep.org/news-and-stories/story/moving-global-mining-industry-towards-biodiversity-awareness,
accessed on 20 June 2022.
109.United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), World Conservation Monitoring Centre (WCMC), Proteus
Partnership, https://unep-wcmc.org/en/Proteus, accessed on 24 November 2023.
110.World Bank, Forest-Smart Mining: Identifying Factors Associated with the Impacts of Large-Scale Mining on
Forests, 2019.
111.World Wildlife Foundation (WWF), Extractive Industry: Its Interactions with Conservation and Management of
29 These additional sector recommendations are based on reporting recommendations 1.2.1 and 1.2.2 in GRI 415: Public Policy 2016. Please see
Disclosure 2-28 in GRI 2: General Disclosures 2021 for further guidance on membership associations.
70 GRI 14: Mining Sector 2024
Ecosystems in Central Africa, 2017.
Resources:
112.International Council for Mining and Metals (ICMM), International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation
Association (IPIECA), Equator Principles, A cross-sector guide for implementing the Mitigation Hierarchy, 2017.
113.International Finance Corporation (IFC), Performance Standard 6: Biodiversity Conservation and Sustainable
Management of Natural Resources, 2012.
114.Mining Association of Canada, Towards Sustainable Mining (TSM), Biodiversity Conservation Management
Protocol, 2020.
115.United Nations Environmental Programme (UNEP), World Conservation Monitoring Centre (WCMC), Biodiversity
A-Z, https://www.biodiversitya-z.org/, accessed on 24 November 2023.
Topic 14.5 Waste
Authoritative instruments:
116.European Commission, Best Available Techniques (BAT) Reference Document for the Management of Waste
from Extractive Industries, 2018.
117.Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), Climate Change 2014: Mitigation of Climate Change –
Industry, 2014.
Additional references:
118.Accenture, Mining New Value From Circular Economy, 2019.
119.Enviro Integration Strategies Inc. and MERG, Towards a Circular Economy Approach to Mining Operations. Key
Concepts, Drivers and Opportunities, 2021.
120.European Commission, Best Available Techniques (BAT) Reference Document for the Management of Waste
from Extractive Industries, 2018.
121.European Commission, Mining Waste,
https://ec.europa.eu/environment/topics/waste-and-recycling/mining-waste_en, accessed on 24 November
2023.
122.Hudson-Edwards and Dold (eds.), Mine Waste Characterization, Management and Remediation, 2015.
123.International Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM), Mining and Metals and the Circular Economy, 2016.
124.International Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM), About tailings,
https://www.icmm.com/en-gb/our-work/innovation-for-sustainability/tailings/about-tailings, accessed on 24
November 2023.
125.United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), Towards a Pollution-Free Planet, 2017
Resources:
126.International Council on Mining & Metals (ICMM), United Nations Environmental Programme (UNEP), Principles
for Responsible Investment (PRI), Global Tailings Review, 2020.
127.International Finance Corporation (IFC), Environmental, Health, and Safety Guidelines for Mining, 2007.
128.International Finance Corporation (IFC), Environmental, Health, and Safety Guidelines for Waste Management,
2007.
Topic 14.6 Tailings
Authoritative instruments:
129.Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), Climate Change 2014: Mitigation of Climate Change –
Industry, 2014.
130.International Maritime Organization (IMO), 1996 Protocol to the Convention on the prevention of marine pollution
by dumping of wastes and other matter, 1972, 1996.
Additional references:
131.C. Roche, K. Thygesen, and E. Baker (Eds.), United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), Mine Tailings
Storage: Safety Is No Accident. A UNEP Rapid Response Assessment, 2017.
132.International Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM), About tailings,
30 According to Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), conflict-affected and high-risk areas are identified by the presence
https://www.icmm.com/en-gb/our-work/innovation-for-sustainability/tailings/about-tailings, accessed on 24
of armed conflict, widespread violence or other risks of harm to people. High-risk areas may include areas of political instability or repression,
instiNtutoiovneaml wbeeakrn 2es0s2, 3in.security, collapse of civil infrastructure and widespread violence [358].
31 International humanitarian law (IHL) is a set of rules that aim to limit the effects of armed conflict and protect individuals who are not or are no longer
participating in the hostilities. IHL binds and provides a framework of standards for state and non-state actors, including organizations whose activities
are linked to armed conflict, that is distinct from that established under human rights law.
71 GRI 14: Mining Sector 2024
133.United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), Towards a Pollution-Free Planet, 2017.
Resources:
134.International Council on Mining & Metals (ICMM), United Nations Environmental Programme (UNEP), Principles
for Responsible Investment (PRI), Global Industry Standard on Tailings Management, 2020.
135.International Finance Corporation (IFC), Environmental, Health, and Safety Guidelines for Mining, 2007.
136.Mining Association of Canada, A Guide to the Management of Tailings Facilities, 2017.
137.Mining Association of Canada, Developing an Operation, Maintenance and Surveillance Manual for Tailings and
Water Management Facilities, 2013.
138.Mining Association of Canada, Towards Sustainable Mining (TSM) Tailings Management Protocol, 2022.
Topic 14.7 Water and effluents
Authoritative instruments:
139.Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), Sixth Assessment Report—Working Group 1 Contribution,
2021.
Additional references:
140.D. Kemp, C. Bond, D. Franks, and C. Cote, Mining, water and human rights: making the connection, 2010.
141.OxFam, Australian Aid, A Guide to Gender Impact Assessment For the Extractive Industries, 2017.
142.Safe Drinking Water Foundation (SDWF), Mining and Water Pollution,
https://www.safewater.org/fact-sheets-1/2017/1/23/miningandwaterpollution, accessed on 24 November 2023.
143.United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), Extracting Good Practices; A Guide for Governments and
Partners to Integrate Environment and Human Rights into the Governance of the Mining Sector, 2018.
144.United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), Towards a Pollution-Free Planet, 2017.
145.United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), Mineral Mining and Processing Effluent Guidelines,
https://www.epa.gov/eg/mineral-mining-and-processing-effluent-guidelines, accessed on 24 November 2023.
146.United Nations Water, Water and Gender, https://www.unwater.org/water-facts/water-and-gender, accessed 24
November 2023.
147.United States Geographic Survey, Mining and Water Quality,
https://www.usgs.gov/special-topics/water-science-school/science/mining-and-water-quality, accessed 24
November 2023.
148.WaterAid, The Impact of Extractive Industries on the quantity and quality of drinking water, 2018.
149.World Bank Independent Evaluation Group, Managing Environmental and Social Risks in Development Policy
Financing, 2015.
Resources:
150.International Council for Mining and Metals (ICMM), Water Stewardship Framework, 2014.
151.International Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM), Water Reporting: Good practice guide (2nd Edition), 2021.
152.Mining Association of Canada, Towards Sustainable Mining (TSM) Water Stewardship Protocol, 2018.
153.World Wildlife Foundation (WWF), WWF Water Risk Filter 6.0, https://waterriskfilter.org/, accessed on 24
November 2023.
Topic 14.8 Closure and rehabilitation
References:
154.D. Laurence, ‘Optimisation of the mine closure process’, Journal of Cleaner Production, 2006,
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S0959652605000399, accessed on 24 November 2023.
155.Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean (ECLAC), https://www.cepal.org/en, accessed on
24 November 2023.
156.Intergovernmental Forum on Mining, Minerals, Metals and Sustainable Development (IGF), Environmental and
Social Impact Assessments,
https://www.igfmining.org/our-work/environmental-and-social-impact-assessments/, accessed on 24 November
2023.
157.Intergovernmental Forum on Mining, Minerals, Metals and Sustainable Development (IGF), Global Review:
Financial assurance governance for the post-mining transition, 2021.
32 For further guidance, including definitions for terms used in the additional sector disclosure, see Organisation for Economic Co-operation and
Development (OECD), Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals from Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas, 2016 [358].
72 GRI 14: Mining Sector 2024
158.United Nations Environmental Programme (UNEP), Managing mining for sustainable development, 2018.
Resources:
159.International Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM), Closure Maturity Framework, 2022.
160.International Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM), Financial concepts for mine closure, 2019.
161.International Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM), Integrated mine closure: Good practice guide (2nd edition),
2019.
162.Nevada Division of Environmental Protection, United States Department of Interior, Nevada Mining Association,
Standardized Reclamation Cost Estimator, https://nvbond.org, accessed 24 November 2023.
Topic 14.9 Economic impacts
Authoritative instruments:
163.Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), OECD Principles for Private Sector
Participation in Infrastructure, 2007.
Additional references:
164.K. Storey, ‘Fly-in/Fly-out: Implications for Community Sustainability’, Sustainability, vol. 2, pp. 1161-1181, 2010.
165.Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), Collaborative Strategies for In-Country
Shared Value Creation, 2016.
166.Pitman and Toroskainen, Beneath the Surface: The Case for Oversight of Extractive Industry Suppliers, 2020.
167.United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), Managing mining for sustainable development, 2018.
Resources:
168.Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI), EITI Standard, 2023.
169.International Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM), Social and Economic Reporting: Framework and Guidance,
2022.
170.International Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM), Tools for Social Performance,
https://www.icmm.com/en-gb/guidance/social-performance/tools-for-social-performance, accessed on 24
November 2023.
171.Mining Shared Value and GIZ GmbH, Mining Local Procurement Reporting Mechanism, 2017,
https://miningsharedvalue.org/mininglprm.
172.Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), Collaborative Strategies for In-Country
Shared Value Creation, 2016.
Topic 14.10 Local communities
Authoritative instruments:
173.Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), Due Diligence Guidance for Meaningful
Stakeholder Engagement in the Extractives Sector, 2015.
Additional references:
174.M.S. Al-Hwaiti, H.J. Brumsack, and B. Schnetger, Heavy metal contamination and health risk assessment in waste
mine water dewatering using phosphate beneficiation processes in Jordan, 2018.
175.C. Bempah and A. Ewusi, Heavy metals contamination and human health risk assessment around Obuasi gold
mine in Ghana, 2016.
176.Cordaid, When Oil, Gas or Mining Arrives in Your Area: Practical Guide for Communities, Civil Society and Local
Government on the Social Aspects of Oil, Gas and Mining, 2016.
177.G. Guo, B. Song, M. Lei, and Y. Wang, Rare earth elements (REEs) in PM10 and associated health risk from the
polymetallic mining region of Nandan County, China, 2018.
178.International Council of Mining and Metals (ICMM), Community Development Toolkit,
https://www.icmm.com/en-gb/guidance/social-performance/community-development-toolkit, accessed on 24
November 2023.
179.International Labour Organization (ILO), Women in mining: towards gender equality, 2021.
180.S.W. Lee, H.G. Cho, and S.O. Kim, Comparisons of human risk assessment models for heavy metal
contamination within abandoned metal mine areas in Korea, 2018.
181.K. Li, T. Liang, L. Wang, and Z. Yang, Contamination and health risk assessment of heavy metals in road dust in
73 GRI 14: Mining Sector 2024
Bayan Obo Mining Region in Inner Mongolia, North China, 2015.
182.Oxfam, The gendered impacts of mining,
https://www.oxfam.org.au/what-we-do/economic-inequality/mining/the-gendered-impacts-of-
mining/#:~:text=women%20can%20lose%20their%20traditional,affect%20the%20safety%20of%20women,
accessed on 24 November 2023.
183.Publish What You Pay, Reversing the resource curse through legislative community development, 2021.
184.J. Song, Q. Liu, and Y. Sheng, Distribution and risk assessment of trace metals in riverine surface sediments in
gold mining area, 2019.
185.The Advocates for Human Rights, Promoting Gender Diversity and Inclusion in the Oil, Gas, and Mining
Extractive Industries, 2019.
186.United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), Extracting Good Practices; A Guide for Governments and
Partners to Integrate Environment and Human Rights into the Governance of the Mining Sector, 2018.
187.World Bank, Mining Community Development Agreements, 2012.
188.World Bank, Responsible Agricultural Investment (RAI) Knowledge into Action Notes, 2018.
Resources:
189.International Finance Corporation (IFC), Guidance Note 4 Community Health, Safety, and Security, 2012.
190.International Finance Corporation (IFC), Performance Standard 4: Community Health, Safety, and Security, 2012.
191.International Finance Corporation (IFC), Unlocking Opportunities for Women and Business: A Toolkit of Actions
and Strategies for Oil, Gas, and Mining Companies, 2018.
192.International Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM), Social and Economic Reporting: Framework and Guidance,
2022.
193.Mining Association of Canada, Towards Sustainable Mining (TSM) Indigenous and Community Relationships
Protocol, 2019.
194.The Danish Institute for Human Rights, Towards gender-responsive implementation of extractive industries
projects, 2019.
195.United Nations Environment Programme Financial Initiative (UNEP FI), Human Rights Guidance Tool for the
Financial Sector, Mining and Metals, https://www.unepfi.org/humanrightstoolkit/mining.php, accessed on 24
November 2023.
Topic 14.11 Rights of Indigenous Peoples
Authoritative instruments:
196.International Labour Organisation (ILO), Indigenous and Tribal Peoples Convention, 1989 (No. 169).
197.United Nations (UN), United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples, 2007.
Additional references:
198.T. E. Downing, J. Moles, I. McIntosh, and C. Garcia-Downing, Indigenous peoples and mining encounters:
Strategies and tactics.IIED and WBCSD, Mining, Minerals and Sustainable Development, Report, 57, 41, 2002.
199.Erica-Irene A. Daes, United Nations (UN), Indigenous peoples’ permanent sovereignty over natural resources:
final report of the Special Rapporteur, 2004.
200.International Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM), Indigenous Peoples and Mining: Good Practice Guide, 2015.
201.J. Burger, Indigenous Peoples, Extractive Industries and Human Rights, 2014.
202.Share, Energy and mining investment, 2022.
203.The Mining Association of Canada (TSM), TSM Indigenous and Community Relationships Protocol, 2021.
204.United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO), UNESCO policy on engaging with
indigenous peoples, 2018.
205.United Nations Human Rights Council (HRC), Report of the Special Rapporteur on the rights 1972 of indigenous
peoples, James Anaya -Extractive industries and indigenous peoples, 2013.
206.United Nations Human Rights Council (HRC), Report of the Special Rapporteur on the rights of indigenous
peoples, James Anaya – Extractive industries and indigenous peoples, 2013.
207.United Nations Human Rights, General Assembly resolution: Permanent sovereignty over natural resources,
1962 (No. 1803).
208.United Nations Permanent Forum on Indigenous Issues (UNPFII), Combating violence against indigenous
women and girls: article 22 of the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples, 2012.
74 GRI 14: Mining Sector 2024
209.United Nations Permanent Forum on Indigenous Issues (UNPFII), Report of the international expert group
meeting on extractive industries, Indigenous Peoples’ rights and corporate social responsibility, 2009.
Resources:
210.International Finance Corporation (IFC), Performance Standard 7: Indigenous Peoples, 2012.
211.International Finance Corporation (IFC), Performance Standard 8: Cultural Heritage, 2006.
Topic 14.12 Land and resource rights
Authoritative instruments:
212.European Union and UN Interagency Framework Team for Preventive Action, Toolkit and Guidance for
Preventing and Managing Land and Natural Resources Conflict: Land and Conflict, 2012.
213.Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), Due Diligence Guidance for Meaningful
Stakeholder Engagement in the Extractives Sector, 2015.
Additional references:
214.International Institute for Environment and Development (IIED), Land acquisitions and rights,
https://www.iied.org/theme/land-acquisitions-rights, accessed on 24 November 2023.
215.P. D. Cameron and M. C. Stanley, Oil, Gas, and Mining: A Sourcebook for Understanding the Extractive Industries,
2017.
216.The Advocates for Human Rights, Promoting Gender Diversity and Inclusion in the Oil, Gas, and Mining
Extractive Industries, 2019.
217.United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), Managing mining for sustainable development, 2018.
218.United Nations Human Rights Office of the High Commissioner, Land and Human Rights,
ohchr.org/EN/Issues/LandAndHR/Pages/LandandHumanRightsIndex.aspx, accessed 24 November 2023.
Resources:
219.International Council on Mining & Metals (ICMM), Land Acquisition and Resettlement, 2015.
220.International Finance Corporation (IFC), Performance Standards 5: Land Acquisition and Involuntary
Resettlement, 2012.
221.The Danish Institute for Human Rights, Towards gender-responsive implementation of extractive industries
projects, 2019.
222.United Nations Environment Programme Financial Initiative (UNEP FI), Human Rights Guidance Tool for the
Financial Sector, Mining and Metals, https://www.unepfi.org/humanrightstoolkit/mining.php, accessed on 24
November 2023.
Topic 14.13 Artisanal and small-scale mining
Authoritative instruments:
223.International Conference on Artisanal and Small-scale Mining & Quarrying, Annex 1 Mosi-oa-Tunya Declaration
on Artisanal and Small-scale Mining, Quarrying and Development, 2018.
224.Organisation for Economic for Co-operation and Development (OECD), Due Diligence Guidance for responsible
mineral supply chains from conflict-affected and high-risk areas, 2016.
References:
225.Alliance for Responsible Mining (ARM), Geneva Centre for Security Sector Governance (DCAF), Practical
Guidance on human rights and security in ASM, 2021.
226.Alliance for Responsible Mining (ARM), Principles of Peaceful Coexistence between Mining Titleholders and
ASM Miners, 2020.
227.Geneva Centre for Security Sector Governance (DCAF), Addressing Security and Human Rights Challenges in
Complex Environments: A Practical Toolkit, 2022.
228.Intergovernmental Forum on Mining, Minerals, Metals and Sustainable Development (IGF), Global Trends in
Artisanal and Small-scale Mining (ASM): A Review of Key Numbers and Issues, 2017.
229.Intergovernmental Forum on Mining, Minerals, Metals and Sustainable Development (IGF), IGF’s New
Resources Look at ASM Through a Gender Lens,
https://www.igfmining.org/announcement/asm-through-gender-lens/, accessed on 24 November 2023.
230.International Finance Corporation (IFC), World Bank, Working together: how large-scale mining can engage with
75 GRI 14: Mining Sector 2024
artisanal and small-scale miners, 2010.
231.International Institude for Environment and Development (IIED), Artisanal and small-scale mining: Challenges
and opportunities, 2003.
232.Organisation for Economic for Co-operation and Development (OECD), Artisanal and small-scale gold mining,
https://www.oecd.org/corporate/mne/artisanal-small-scale-miner-hub.htm, accessed on 24 November 2023.
233.World Bank Group, Profor, Forest-Smart Mining: Identifying Factors Associated with the Impacts of Large-Scale
Mining on Forests, 2019.
234.World Bank, 2020 State of the Artisanal and Small Scale Mining Sector, 2020,
235.World Bank, Artisanal and Small-Scale Mining,
https://www.worldbaorg/en/topic/extractiveindustries/brief/artisanal-and-small-scale-mining, accessed on 24
November 2023.
Resources:
236.CRAFT, Code for the mitigation of Risks in Artisanal and small-scale mining, https://www.craftmines.org/en/,
accessed 24 November 2023.
237.DELVE, Global Number of People Working in ASM, https://delvedatabase.org/data, accessed 24 November
2023.
238.Intergovernmental Forum on Mining, Minerals, Metals and Sustainable Development (IGF), IGF Guidance for
Governments: Managing artisanal and small-scale mining, 2017.
239.The Danish Institute for Human Rights, Towards gender-responsive implementation of extractive industries
projects, 2019.
Topic 14.14 Security practices
Authoritative instruments:
240.Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCR), Basic Principles on the Use of Force and Firearms
by Law Enforcement Officials, 1990.
241.Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCR), Code of Conduct for Law Enforcement Officials,
1979.
242.Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible
Supply Chains of Minerals from Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas, 2016.
243.United Nations (UN), Declaration on human rights defenders, 1998 (General Assembly Resolution
A/RES/53/144).
244.United Nations (UN), Escazú Agreement: Regional Agreement on Access to Information, Public Participation and
Justice in Environmental Matters in Latin America and the Caribbean, 2018.
References:
245.Global Witness, Decade of defiance, 2022.
246.Institute for Human Rights and Business (IHRB), From Red to Green Flags: The Corporate Responsibility to
Respect Human Rights in High-Risk Countries, 2011.
247.International Code of Conduct Association (IcoCA), Homepage, https://icoca.ch/, accessed on 24 November
2023.
248.Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR), ‘Private military and security companies in
extractive industries – impact on human rights’, 2017.
Resources:
249.International Council on Mining & Metals (ICMM), International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC), International
Finance Corporation (IFC), and International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association
(IPIECA), Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights, Implementation guidance tools (IGT), 2011.
250.Geneva Centre for Security Sector Governance (DCAF), International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC),
Security and Human Rights Toolkit, 2022.
251.Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights, The Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights,
2000.
Topic 14.15 Critical incident management
76 GRI 14: Mining Sector 2024
References:
252.International Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM), Health and safety critical control management, 2015.
253.International Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM), Health and safety performance indicators,
https://www.icmm.com/en-gb/guidance/health-safety/health-and-safety-performance-indicators, accessed on 24
November 2023.
254.International Labour Organization (ILO), Code of practice: Safety and health in opencast mines, 2018.
Resources:
255.Global Tailings Reviews, Global Industry Standard on Tailings Management, 2020.
256.Initiative for Responsible Mining Assurance (IRMA), ‘Emergency Preparedness and Response’, ‘Planning and
Financing Reclamation and Closure’, ‘Waste and Materials Management’, Standard for Responsible Mining, vol.
1, pp 66-76, 122-130, 2018.
257.International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), Safety Standards, https://www.iaea.org/resources/safety-standards,
accessed on 24 November 2023.
Topic 14.16 Occupational health and safety
Authoritative instruments:
258.International Labour Organization (ILO), Safety and Health in Mines Convention, 1995 (No. 176).
259.International Labour Organization (ILO), Violence and Harassment Convention, 2019 (No. 190).
260.International Labour Organization (ILO), Code of practice on safety and health in opencast mines, 2018.
261.United Nations, Globally Harmonized System of Classification and Labeling of Chemicals (GHS) Ninth Edition,
2021.
References:
262.Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), The National Institute for Occupational Health and Safety
(NIOSH), Mining Topic: Respiratory Diseases, cdc.gov/niosh/mining/topics/RespiratoryDiseases.html, accessed
24 November 2023.
263.International Council of Mining and Metals (ICMM), Health and Safety Performance Indicators.
https://www.icmm.com/en-gb/guidance/health-safety/health-and-safety-performance-indicators, accessed on 24
November 2023.
264.International Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM), Fatality Prevention: Eight lessons learned,
https://www.icmm.com/en-gb/research/health-safety/fatality-prevention, accessed on 24 November 2023.
265.International Labour Organization (ILO), Safety and health in underground coalmines, 2009.
266.International Labour Organization (ILO), Women in mining: Towards gender equality, 2021.
267.Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) US Department of Labor, Silica, Crystalline: Health
Effects, https://www.osha.gov/silica-crystalline/health-effects, accessed on 24 November 2023.
268.The Advocates for Human Rights, Promoting Gender Diversity and Inclusion in the Oil, Gas and Mining Extractive
Industries: A Women’s Human Rights Report, 2019.
269.United Nations Development Programme, Managing Mining for Sustainable Development, 2018.
Resources:
270.International Council on Mining & Metals (ICMM), Good practice guidance on occupational health risk
assessment, 2016.
Topic 14.17 Employment practices
Authoritative instruments:
271.International Finance Corporation (IFC), Stakeholder Engagement: A Good Practice Handbook for Companies
Doing Business in Emerging Markets, 2007.
272.Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), Due Diligence Guidance for Meaningful
Stakeholder Engagement in the Extractives Sector, 2015.
References:
273.Business and Human Rights Resource Centre, Africa: Report uncovers serious non-compliance with Social
Labour Plans by three prominent mining companies, 2022.
274.International Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM), Future of Jobs in Mining Regions, 2020.
77 GRI 14: Mining Sector 2024
275.International Labour Organization (ILO), Sustainable Mining. How good practices in the mining sector contribute
to more and better jobs, 2017.
276.International Labour Organization (ILO), Women in mining: Towards gender equality, 2021.
277.United Nations Development Programme, Managing Mining for Sustainable Development, 2018.
Resources:
278.International Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM), Social and Economic Reporting: Framework and Guidance,
2022.
Topic 14.18 Child labor
Authoritative instruments:
279.Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises,
2011.
280.International Labour Organization (ILO), Minimum Age Convention, 1973 (No. 138).
281.International Labour Organization (ILO), Worst Forms of Child Labour Convention, 1999 (No. 182).
282.United Nations (UN) Convention, ‘Convention on the Rights of the Child’, 1989.
283.United States Department of Labor, 2020 List of Goods Produced by Child Labor or Forced Labor, 2020.
Additional references:
284.International Labour Organization (ILO) and International Organisation of Employers (IOE), How to do business
with respect for children’s right to be free from child labour: ILO-IOE child labour guidance tool for business, 2015.
285.International Labour Organization (ILO), Global estimates of child labour. 2012-2016, 2017.
286.International Labour Organization (ILO), Child Labour in Mining and Global Supply Chains, 2019.
287.Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), Interconnected supply chains: a
comprehensive look at due diligence challenges and opportunities sourcing cobalt and copper from the
Democratic Republic of the Congo, 2019.
288.Save the Children, The Centre for Child Rights and Business, Opportunities for Businesses to Promote Child
Rights in Cobalt Artisanal and Small-scale Mining, 2021.
289.United Nations Childen’s Fund (UNICEF), Mapping child labour risks in global supply chains: an analysis of the
apparel, electronics and agricultural sectors, 2020.
290.Walk Free, The Global Slavery Index, https://www.walkfree.org/global-slavery-index/, accessed on 24 November
2023.
291.Women’s Rights and Mining, What are the Gender Dimensions of Child Labour in Mining?,
https://womenandmining.org/what-are-the-gender-dimensions-of-child-labour-in-mining, accessed 24
November 2023.
Resources:
292.Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), Practical actions for companies to identify
and address the worst forms of child labour in mineral supply chains, 2017.
Topic 14.19 Forced labor and modern slavery
Authoritative instruments:
293.International Labour Organization (ILO), Forced Labour Convention, 1930 (No. 19).
294.Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), OECD Guidelines for Multinational
Enterprises, 2011.
Additional references:
295.Alliance for Responsible Mining (ARM), Addressing Forced Labor in Artisanal and Small-scale Mining (ASM),
2014.
296.Australian Government, Modern Slavery Act 2018, https://www.legislation.gov.au/Details/C2018A00153,
accessed on 24 November 2023.
297.Business and Human Rights Resource Centre, Nevsun lawsuit (re Bisha mine, Eritrea),
https://www.business-humanrights.org/en/latest-news/nevsun-lawsuit-re-bisha-mine-eritrea/, accessed on 24
November 2023.
298.International Council for Mining and Metals (ICMM), Tackling modern slavery in the mining supply chain, 2016.
78 GRI 14: Mining Sector 2024
299.International Labour Organization (ILO), Global Estimates of Modern Slavery, 2017.
300.International Labour Organization (ILO), Walk Free, International Organization for Migration (IOM), Global
Estimates of Modern Slavery, Forced Labour, and Forced Marriage, 2022.
301.M. Coderre-Proulx, B. Campbell, I Mandé, and International Labour Organization (ILO), International migrant
workers in the mining sector, 2016.
302.United States Department of State, Trafficking in Persons Report, 2021.
303.United States Department of Labor, 2020 List of Goods Produced by Child Labor or Forced Labor, 2020.
304.Walk Free, The Global Slavery Index, https://www.globalslaveryindex.org/, accessed on 24 November 2023.
Topic 14.20 Freedom of association and collective bargaining
References:
305.International Labour Organization (ILO), International Labour Standards on Collective bargaining,
https://www.ilo.org/global/standards/subjects-covered-by-international-labour-standards/collective-
bargaining/lang--en/index.htm?msclkid=f4a489f1a63111ecbfd7ab27c4baa6a8,
accessed on 24 November 2023.
306.Max Plank Foundation and BGR,Human Rights Risks in Mining: A Baseline Study, 2016.
307.United Nations Global Compact, Guiding Principles for Business and Human Rights: Implementing the United
Nations “Protect, Respect and Remedy” Framework, 2011.
Resources:
308.Initiative for Responsible Mining Assurance (IRMA), ‘Complaints and Grievance Mechanism and Access to
Remedy’, Standard for Responsible Mining, vol. 1, pp 31-34, 2018.
Topic 14.21 Non-discrimination and equal opportunity
Authoritative instruments:
309.United Nations (UN), General comment No. 20: Non-discrimination in economic, social and cultural rights (art. 2,
para. 2, of the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights), 2009.
References:
310.International Labour Organization (ILO), Women in mining: Towards gender equality, 2021.
311.National Resource Governance Institute, Gender and Extractive Governance: Lessons from Existing Legal and
Policy Frameworks, 2021.
312.Oxfam International, Position Paper on Gender Justice and the Extractive Industries, 2017.
313.Reuters, Factbox: Australia's inquiry into sexual harassment in mining, 23 June 2022.
314.The Advocates for Human Rights, Promoting Gender Diversity and Inclusion in the Oil, Gas, and Mining
Extractive Industries, 2019.
315.Women’s Rights and Mining, https://womenandmining.org/, accessed on 24 November 2023.
316.World Bank, Gender Dimensions of the Extractive Industries: Mining for Equity, 2009.
Resources:
317.United Nations Environment Programme Financial Initiative (UNEP FI), Human Rights Guidance Tool for the
Financial Sector, Mining and Metals, https://www.unepfi.org/humanrightstoolkit/mining.php, accessed on 24
November 2023.
Topic 14.22 Anti-corruption
Authoritative instruments:
318.Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), Convention on Combating Bribery of
Foreign Public Officials in International Business Transactions and Related Documents, 1997.
319.Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible
Supply Chains of Minerals from Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas, 2016.
References:
320.E. Westenberg and A. Sayne, Beneficial Ownership Screening: Practical Measures to Reduce Corruption Risks in
Extractives Licensing, 2018.
321.Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI), Addressing corruption risks through EITI implementation, 2021.
79 GRI 14: Mining Sector 2024
322.Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI), Factsheet: Disclosing beneficial ownership, 2017.
323.Financial Action Task Force (FATF), FATF guidance: Politically exposed persons (recommendations 12 and 22),
2013.
324.International Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM), Contract Transparency Commitment,
https://www.icmm.com/en-gb/news/2021/new-commitment-contract-transparency, accessed 24 November
2023.
325.Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), Corruption in the Extractive Value Chain:
Typology of Risks, Mitigation Measures and Incentives, 2016.
326.Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), Frequently Asked Questions: How to
address bribery and corruption risks in mineral supply chains, 2021.
327.Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), OECD Foreign Bribery Report: An Analysis
of the Crime of Bribery of Foreign Public Officials, 2014.
328.Sayne, Gillies and Watkins, Twelve Red Flags: Corruption Risks in the Award of Extractive Sector Licenses and
Contracts, 2017.
329.Transparency International, Combatting corruption in mining approvals, 2017.
330.Transparency International, Corruption risk mitigation in the mining sector, 2019.
331.Westenberg and Sayne, Beneficial Ownership Screening: Practical Measures to Reduce Corruption Risks in
Extractives Licensing, 2018.
332.A. Williams and K. Dupuy, Deciding over nature: Corruption and environmental impact assessments, 2016.
Resources:
333.Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI), EITI Standard 2023, 2023.
334.Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI), Reporting Guidelines for companies buying oil, gas, and
minerals from governments, 2020.
Topic 14.23 Payments to governments
Authoritative instruments:
335.European Parliament, ‘Directive 2013/34/EU of the European Parliament and the Council of 26 June 2013 on the
annual financial statements, consolidated financial statements and related reports of certain types of
undertakings’, 2013.
336.Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible
Supply Chains of Minerals from Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas, 2016.
References:
337.Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI), Fact sheet: Project-level reporting in the extractive industries,
2018.
338.Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI), Upstream Oil, Gas, and Mining State-Owned Enterprises,
Governance Challenges and the Role of International Reporting Standards in Improving Performance, 2018.
339.Intergovernmental Forum on Mining, Minerals, Metals and Sustainable Development (IGF), Building Government
Capacity to Secure Mining’s Financial Benefits in Latin America,
https://www.igfmining.org/secure-mining-financial-benefits-latin-america/, accessed on 24 November 2023.
340.International Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM), Position Statement: Transparency of Mineral Revenues,
2021.
341.National Resource Governance Institute (NRGI), Transfer Pricing in the Mining Sector: Preventing Loss of Income
Tax Revenue, 2016.
342.Transparency International, Under the Surface: Looking into Payments by Oil, Gas and Mining Companies to
Governments, 2018.
343.United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), Extracting Good Practices, 2018.
Resources:
344.Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI), EITI Standard 2023, 2023.
345.Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI), Reporting Guidelines for companies buying oil, gas, and
minerals from governments, 2020.
346.Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), Transfer Pricing Documentation and
Country-by-Country Reporting, Action 13 - 2015 Final Report, OECD/G20 Base Erosion and Profit Shifting
80 GRI 14: Mining Sector 2024
Project, 2015.
Topic 14.24 Public policy
Authoritative instruments:
347.United Nations, Framework Convention on Climate Change, The Paris Agreement, 2016.
References:
348.Australia Institute, Undermining our democracy: Foreign corporate influence through the Australian mining lobby,
2017.
349.Influence Map, BHP and Rio Tinto: Their Industry Groups and Climate Lobbying, 2020.
350.InfluenceMap, Trade association and climate: Shareholders make themselves heard, 2018,
https://influencemap.org/report/Trade-associations-and-climate-shareholders-make-themselves-
heardcf9db75c0a4e25555fafb0d84a152c23, accessed on 24 November 2023.
351.L. Leonard, Mining Corporations, Democratic Meddling, and Environmental Justice in South Africa, 2018.
352.Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), Corruption in the Extractive Value Chain,
2016.
353.Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), Lobbying,
https://www.oecd.org/corruption/ethics/lobbying/, accessed on 24 November 2023.
354.Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), Preventing policy capture, integrity in public
decision making, 2017.
355.Sidney Morning Herald, Mining lobby defends green goals amid push for BHP to quit, 2021.
356.Transparency International, Combatting corruption in mining approvals, 2017.
Topic 14.25 Conflict-affected and high-risk areas
Authoritative instruments:
357.European Union, Indicative, Non-exhaustive list of conflict-affected and high-risk areas under (EU) Regulation
2017/821, https://www.cahraslist.net/cahras, accessed on 24 November 2023.
358.Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible
Supply Chains of Minerals from Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas, 2016.
Additional references:
359.Australian Red Cross, RMIT University, Doing responsible business in armed conflict: Risks, Rights and
Responsibilities, 2020.
360.Geneva Academy of International Humanitarian Law and Human Rights, Rule of Law in Armed Conflicts, 2022.
361.International Alert, Human rights due diligence in conflict-affected settings: Guidance for extractive industries,
2018.
362.United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), Heightened Human Rights Due Diligence for Business in
Conflict-Affected Contexts: A Guide, 2022.
363.United Nations Environmental Programme (UNEP), From Conflict to Peacebuilding: The Role of Natural
Resources and the Environment, 2009.
Resources:
364.Australian Red Cross, Seven Indicators of Corporate Best Practice in International Humanitarian Law, 2021.
365.Code of Risk-mitigation for ASM engaging in Formal Trade (CRAFT), What is CRAFT?,
https://www.craftmines.org/en/what-is-craft/, accessed 24 November 2023.
366.European Union (EU) and UN Interagency Framework Team for Preventive Action, Toolkit and Guidance for
Preventing and Managing Land and Natural Resources Conflict: Extractive Industries and Conflict, 2012.
367.Geneva Centre for Security Sector Governance (DCAF), International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC),
Security and Human Rights Toolkit, https://www.securityhumanrightshub.org/toolkit/challenge-topics.html,
accessed 24 November 2023.
368.Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), Weak governance zones - Risk awareness
tool for multinational enterprises,
https://www.oecd.org/daf/inv/mne/weakgovernancezones-riskawarenesstoolformultinationalenterprises-
oecd.htm, accessed on 24 November 2023.
81 GRI 14: Mining Sector 2024
369.Responsible Minerals Initiative (RMI), Responsible Minerals Assurance Process (RMAP), 2022.
370.Responsible Minerals Initiative (RMI), Responsible Minerals Assurance Process: Public Due Diligence Report
Writing Guidance, 2018.
371.Uppsala University, Uppsala Conflict Data Program, https://ucdp.uu.se/encyclopedia, accessed on 24 November
2023.
372.Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights, The Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights,
2000.
PO Box 10039
1001 EA Amsterdam
The Netherlands
www.globalreporting.org
