GRI 413: Local Communities 2016
413
EFFECTIVE DATE: 1 JULY 2018
TOPIC STANDARD
GRI 413: Local Communities 2016
Topic Standard
Effective Date
This Standard is effective for reports or other materials published on or after 1 July 2018
Responsibility
This Standard is issued by the Global Sustainability Standards Board (GSSB). Any feedback on the GRI Standards
can be submitted to gssbsecretariat@globalreporting.org for the consideration of the GSSB.
Due Process
This Standard was developed in the public interest and in accordance with the requirements of the GSSB Due
Process Protocol. It has been developed using multi-stakeholder expertise, and with regard to authoritative
intergovernmental instruments and widely held expectations of organizations relating to social, environmental, and
economic responsibilities.
Legal Liability
This document, designed to promote sustainability reporting, has been developed by the Global Sustainability
Standards Board (GSSB) through a unique multi-stakeholder consultative process involving representatives from
organizations and report information users from around the world. While the GRI Supervisory Board, Management
Board, and GSSB encourage the use of the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI Standards) and related
Interpretations by all organizations, the preparation and publication of reports based fully or partially on the GRI
Standards and related Interpretations are the full responsibility of those producing them. Neither the GRI Supervisory
Board, Management Board, GSSB, nor Stichting Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) can assume responsibility for any
consequences or damages resulting directly or indirectly from the use of the GRI Standards and related
Interpretations in the preparation of reports, or the use of reports based on the GRI Standards and related
Interpretations.
Copyright and trademark notice
This document is copyright-protected by Stichting Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). The reproduction and distribution
of this document for information and/or use in preparing a sustainability report is permitted without prior permission
from GRI. However, neither this document nor any extract from it may be reproduced, stored, translated, or transferred
in any form or by any means (electronic, mechanical, photocopied, recorded, or otherwise) for any other purpose
without prior written permission from GRI.
Global Reporting Initiative, GRI and logo, GSSB and logo, and GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI
Standards) and logo are trademarks of Stichting Global Reporting Initiative.
© 2025 GRI. All rights reserved.
ISBN 978-90-8866-124-2
3 GRI 413: Local Communities 2016
Content
Introduction 4
1. Topic management disclosures 7
2. Topic disclosures 8
Disclosure 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact
8
assessments, and development programs
Disclosure 413-2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts
10
on local communities
Glossary 12
Bibliography 15
4 GRI 413: Local Communities 2016
Introduction
GRI 413: Local Communities 2016 contains disclosures for organizations to report information about their impacts
related to local communities, and how they manage these impacts.
The Standard is structured as follows:
• Section 1 contains a requirement, which provides information about how the organization manages its impacts
related to local communities.
• Section 2 contains two disclosures, which provide information about the organization’s impacts related to local
communities.
• The Glossary contains defined terms with a specific meaning when used in the GRI Standards. The terms are
underlined in the text of the GRI Standards and linked to the definitions.
• The Bibliography lists authoritative intergovernmental instruments and additional references used in developing
this Standard.
The rest of the Introduction section provides a background on the topic, an overview of the system of GRI Standards
and further information on using this Standard.
Background on the topic
This Standard addresses the topic of local communities. In the GRI Standards, local communities are defined as
individuals or groups of individuals living or working in areas that are affected or that could be affected by the
organization’s activities. The local community can range from those living adjacent to the organization's operations to
those living at a distance.
An organization’s activities and infrastructure can have significant economic, social, cultural, and/or environmental
impacts on local communities. Where possible, organizations are expected to anticipate and avoid negative impacts
on local communities. Establishing a timely and effective stakeholder identification and engagement process is
important to help organizations understand the vulnerability of local communities and how these might be affected by
the organization’s activities.
Due to the heterogeneous nature of local communities, an organization is expected to consider the differentiated
nature of communities and the distinct and specific vulnerabilities these groups can suffer as a result of the
organization’s activities.
These concepts are covered in key instruments of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development and
the United Nations: see the Bibliography.
System of GRI Standards
This Standard is part of the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI Standards). The GRI Standards enable an
organization to report information about its most significant impacts on the economy, environment, and people,
including impacts on their human rights, and how it manages these impacts.
The GRI Standards are structured as a system of interrelated standards that are organized into three series: GRI
Universal Standards, GRI Sector Standards, and GRI Topic Standards (see Figure 1 in this Standard).
Universal Standards: GRI 1, GRI 2 and GRI 3
GRI 1: Foundation 2021 specifies the requirements that the organization must comply with to report in accordance
with the GRI Standards. The organization begins using the GRI Standards by consulting GRI 1.
GRI 2: General Disclosures 2021 contains disclosures that the organization uses to provide information about its
reporting practices and other organizational details, such as its activities, governance, and policies.
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 provides guidance on how to determine material topics. It also contains disclosures that
the organization uses to report information about its process of determining material topics, its list of material topics,
and how it manages each topic.
Sector Standards
The Sector Standards provide information for organizations about their likely material topics. The organization uses
the Sector Standards that apply to its sectors when determining its material topics and when determining what to
report for each material topic.
5 GRI 413: Local Communities 2016
Topic Standards
The Topic Standards contain disclosures that the organization uses to report information about its impacts in relation
to particular topics. The organization uses the Topic Standards according to the list of material topics it has
determined using GRI 3.
Figure 1. GRI Standards: Universal, Sector and Topic Standards
GRI Standards
Universal Standards Sector Standards Topic Standards
Requirements and
principles for using the
GRI Standards
Disclosures about the
reporting organization
Disclosures and
guidance about the
organization's material
topics
Apply all three Universal Use the Sector Standards that Select Topic Standards to report
Standards to your reporting apply to your sectors specific information on your
material topics
Using this Standard
This Standard can be used by any organization – regardless of size, type, sector, geographic location, or reporting
experience – to report information about its impacts related to local communities.
An organization reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards is required to report the following disclosures if it has
determined local communities to be a material topic:
• Disclosure 3-3 in GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 (see clause 1.1 in this Standard);
• Any disclosures from this Topic Standard that are relevant to the organization’s impacts related to local
communities (Disclosure 413-1 through Disclosure 413-2).
See Requirements 4 and 5 in GRI 1: Foundation 2021.
Reasons for omission are permitted for these disclosures.
If the organization cannot comply with a disclosure or with a requirement in a disclosure (e.g., because the required
information is confidential or subject to legal prohibitions), the organization is required to specify the disclosure or the
requirement it cannot comply with, and provide a reason for omission together with an explanation in the GRI content
index. See Requirement 6 in GRI 1: Foundation 2021 for more information on reasons for omission.
If the organization cannot report the required information about an item specified in a disclosure because the item
(e.g., committee, policy, practice, process) does not exist, it can comply with the requirement by reporting this to be the
case. The organization can explain the reasons for not having this item, or describe any plans to develop it. The
disclosure does not require the organization to implement the item (e.g., developing a policy), but to report that the
item does not exist.
6 GRI 413: Local Communities 2016
If the organization intends to publish a standalone sustainability report, it does not need to repeat information that it
has already reported publicly elsewhere, such as on web pages or in its annual report. In such a case, the
organization can report a required disclosure by providing a reference in the GRI content index as to where this
information can be found (e.g., by providing a link to the web page or citing the page in the annual report where the
information has been published).
Requirements, guidance and defined terms
The following apply throughout this Standard:
Requirements are presented in bold font and indicated by the word 'shall'. An organization must comply with
requirements to report in accordance with the GRI Standards.
Requirements may be accompanied by guidance.
Guidance includes background information, explanations, and examples to help the organization better understand
the requirements. The organization is not required to comply with guidance.
The Standards may also include recommendations. These are cases where a particular course of action is
encouraged but not required.
The word ‘should’ indicates a recommendation, and the word ‘can’ indicates a possibility or option.
Defined terms are underlined in the text of the GRI Standards and linked to their definitions in the Glossary. The
organization is required to apply the definitions in the Glossary.
7 GRI 413: Local Communities 2016
1. Topic management disclosures
An organization reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards is required to report how it manages each of its
material topics.
An organization that has determined local communities to be a material topic is required to report how it manages the
topic using Disclosure 3-3 in GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 (see clause 1.1 in this section).
This section is therefore designed to supplement – and not replace – Disclosure 3-3 in GRI 3.
1.1 The reporting organization shall report how it manages local communities using
REQUIREMENTS
Disclosure 3-3 in GRI 3: Material Topics 2021.
The reporting organization can also describe:
GUIDANCE
• the means by which stakeholders are identified and engaged with;
• which vulnerable groups have been identified;
• any collective or individual rights that have been identified that are of particular concern for
the community in question;
• how it engages with stakeholder groups that are particular to the community (for example,
groups defined by age, indigenous background, ethnicity or migration status);
• the means by which its departments and other bodies address risks and impacts, or
support independent third parties to engage with stakeholders and address risks and
impacts.
Background
Communities have individual and collective rights deriving from, among others, international
declarations and conventions such as:
• the United Nations (UN) Declaration, ‘Universal Declaration of Human Rights’, 1948;
• the United Nations (UN) Convention, ‘International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights’,
1966;
• the United Nations (UN) Convention, ‘International Covenant on Economic, Social, and
Cultural Rights’, 1966;
• the United Nations (UN) Declaration, ‘Declaration on the Right to Development’, 1986.
Other standards such as the International Finance Corporation’s (IFC) Performance Standards
(PS) also provide widely-accepted good practice approaches for organizational assessment,
engagement and treatment of community-related impact issues (see IFC PS1 – Assessment
and Management of Environmental and Social Risks and Impacts, and PS4 – Community
Health, Safety, and Security).
8 GRI 413: Local Communities 2016
2. Topic disclosures
Disclosure 413-1 Operations with local community engagement,
impact assessments, and development programs
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
REQUIREMENTS
a. Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact
assessments, and/or development programs, including the use of:
i. social impact assessments, including gender impact assessments, based on
participatory processes;
ii. environmental impact assessments and ongoing monitoring;
iii. public disclosure of results of environmental and social impact assessments;
iv. local community development programs based on local communities’ needs;
v. stakeholder engagement plans based on stakeholder mapping;
vi. broad based local community consultation committees and processes that include
vulnerable groups;
vii. works councils, occupational health and safety committees and other worker
representation bodies to deal with impacts;
viii. formal local community grievance processes.
2.1 When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 413-1, the reporting organization
RECOMMENDATIONS
should use the data from Disclosure 2-6 in GRI 2: General Disclosures 2021 to identify
the total number of operations, if the organization has reported its total number of
operations when describing its activities.
Background
GUIDANCE
A key element in managing impacts on people in local communities is assessment and
planning in order to understand the actual and potential impacts, and strong engagement with
local communities to understand their expectations and needs. There are many elements that
can be incorporated into local community engagement, impact assessments, and development
programs. This disclosure seeks to identify which elements have been consistently applied,
organization-wide.
Where possible, organizations are expected to anticipate and avoid negative impacts on local
communities. Where this is not possible, or where residual impacts remain, organizations are
expected to manage those impacts appropriately, including grievances, and to compensate
local communities for negative impacts.
Establishing a timely and effective stakeholder identification and engagement process is
important to help organizations understand the vulnerability of local communities and how these
might be affected by the organization’s activities. A stakeholder engagement process both in
early planning stages as well as during operations, can help establish lines of communication
between an organization’s various departments (planning, finance, environment, production,
etc.) and key stakeholder interest groups in the community. This enables an organization to
consider the views of community stakeholders in its decisions, and to address its potential
impacts on local communities in a timely manner.
Organizations can utilize a number of useful tools to engage communities, including social and
human rights impact assessments, which include a diverse set of approaches for proper
identification of stakeholders and community characteristics. These can be based on issues
such as ethnic background, indigenous descent, gender, age, migrant status, socioeconomic
status, literacy levels, disabilities, income level, infrastructure availability or specific human
health vulnerabilities which may exist within stakeholder communities.
An organization is expected to consider the differentiated nature of local communities and to
take specific action to identify and engage vulnerable groups. This might require adopting
differentiated measures to allow the effective participation of vulnerable groups, such as making
information available in alternate languages or format for those who are not literate or who do
9 GRI 413: Local Communities 2016
not have access to printed materials. Where necessary, organizations are expected to establish
additional or separate processes so that negative impacts on vulnerable or disadvantaged
groups are avoided, minimized, mitigated or compensated.1
1 International Finance Corporation (IFC), Guidance Notes: Performance Standards on Environmental and Social Sustainability, 2012.
10 GRI 413: Local Communities 2016
Disclosure 413-2 Operations with significant actual and potential
negative impacts on local communities
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
REQUIREMENTS
a. Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities,
including:
i. the location of the operations;
ii. the significant actual and potential negative impacts of operations.
2.2 When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 413-2, the reporting organization
RECOMMENDATIONS
should:
2.2.1 report the vulnerability and risk to local communities from potential negative
impacts due to factors including:
2.2.1.1the degree of physical or economic isolation of the local community;
2.2.1.2the level of socioeconomic development, including the degree of gender
equality within the community;
2.2.1.3the state of socioeconomic infrastructure, including health and education
infrastructure;
2.2.1.4the proximity to operations;
2.2.1.5the level of social organization;
2.2.1.6the strength and quality of the governance of local and national institutions
around local communities;
2.2.2 report the exposure of the local community to its operations due to higher than
average use of shared resources or impact on shared resources, including:
2.2.2.1the use of hazardous substances that have an impact on the environment
and human health in general, and specifically have an impact on
reproductive health;
2.2.2.2the volume and type of pollution released;
2.2.2.3the status as major employer in the local community;
2.2.2.4land conversion and resettlement;
2.2.2.5natural resource consumption;
2.2.3 for each of the significant actual and potential negative economic, social, cultural,
and/or environmental impacts on local communities and their rights, describe:
2.2.3.1the intensity or severity of the impact;
2.2.3.2the likely duration of the impact;
2.2.3.3the reversibility of the impact;
2.2.3.4the scale of the impact.
Guidance for Disclosure 413-2
GUIDANCE
Internal sources of information about actual and potential negative impacts of operations on
local communities can include:
• actual performance data;
• internal investment plans and associated risk assessments;
• all data collected with topic disclosures as they relate to individual communities. For
example: GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts 2016, GRI 301: Materials 2016, GRI 302:
Energy 2016, GRI 303: Water and Effluents 2018, GRI 304: Biodiversity 2016, GRI 305:
Emissions 2016, GRI 306: Waste 2020, GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2018, GRI
408: Child Labor 2016, GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labor 2016, GRI 410: Security
Practices 2016, GRI 411: Rights of Indigenous Peoples 2016, and GRI 416: Customer Health
and Safety 2016.
Background
This disclosure is focused on significant actual and potential negative impacts related to an
organization’s operations and not on community investments or donations, which are
addressed by GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016.
This disclosure informs stakeholders about an organization’s awareness of its negative
impacts on local communities. It also enables the organization to better prioritize and improve
11 GRI 413: Local Communities 2016
its organization-wide attention to local communities.
12 GRI 413: Local Communities 2016
Glossary
This glossary provides definitions for terms used in this Standard. The organization is required to apply these
definitions when using the GRI Standards.
The definitions included in this glossary may contain terms that are further defined in the complete GRI Standards
Glossary. All defined terms are underlined. If a term is not defined in this glossary or in the complete GRI Standards
Glossary, definitions that are commonly used and understood apply.
business partner
B
entity with which the organization has some form of direct and formal engagement for the
purpose of meeting its business objectives
Source: Shift and Mazars LLP, UN Guiding Principles Reporting Framework, 2015; modified
Examples: affiliates, business-to-business customers, clients, first-tier suppliers, franchisees,
joint venture partners, investee companies in which the organization has a
shareholding position
Note: Business partners do not include subsidiaries and affiliates that the organization
controls.
business relationships
relationships that the organization has with business partners, with entities in its value chain
including those beyond the first tier, and with any other entities directly linked to its operations,
products, or services
Source: United Nations (UN), Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights:
Implementing the United Nations “Protect, Respect and Remedy” Framework, 2011;
modified
Note: Examples of other entities directly linked to the organization’s operations, products,
or services are a non-governmental organization with which the organization
delivers support to a local community or state security forces that protect the
organization’s facilities.
child
C
person under the age of 15 years, or under the age of completion of compulsory schooling,
whichever is higher
Note 1: Exceptions can occur in certain countries where economies and educational
facilities are insufficiently developed, and a minimum age of 14 years applies.
These countries of exception are specified by the International Labour Organization
(ILO) in response to a special application by the country concerned and in
consultation with representative organizations of employers and workers.
Note 2: The ILO Minimum Age Convention, 1973, (No. 138), refers to both child labor and
young workers.
community development program
plan that details actions to minimize, mitigate, or compensate for adverse social and/or
economic impacts, and/or to identify opportunities or actions to enhance positive impacts of a
project on the community
employee
E
individual who is in an employment relationship with the organization according to national law
or practice
human rights
H
rights inherent to all human beings, which include, at a minimum, the rights set out in the United
Nations (UN) International Bill of Human Rights and the principles concerning fundamental
rights set out in the International Labour Organization (ILO) Declaration on Fundamental
Principles and Rights at Work
13 GRI 413: Local Communities 2016
Source: United Nations (UN), Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights:
Implementing the United Nations “Protect, Respect and Remedy” Framework, 2011;
modified
Note: See Guidance to 2-23-b-i in GRI 2: General Disclosures 2021 for more information
on ‘human rights’.
impact
I
effect the organization has or could have on the economy, environment, and people, including on
their human rights, which in turn can indicate its contribution (negative or positive) to sustainable
development
Note 1: Impacts can be actual or potential, negative or positive, short-term or long-term,
intended or unintended, and reversible or irreversible.
Note 2: See section 2.1 in GRI 1: Foundation 2021 for more information on ‘impact’.
Indigenous Peoples
Indigenous Peoples are generally identified as:
• tribal peoples in independent countries whose social, cultural and economic conditions
distinguish them from other sections of the national community, and whose status is
regulated wholly or partially by their own customs or traditions or by special laws or
regulations;
• peoples in independent countries who are regarded as indigenous on account of their
descent from the populations which inhabited the country, or a geographical region to which
the country belongs, at the time of conquest or colonization or the establishment of present
state boundaries and who, irrespective of their legal status, retain some or all of their own
social, economic, cultural and political institutions.
Source: International Labour Organization (ILO), Indigenous and Tribal Peoples Convention,
1989 (No. 169)
local community
L
individuals or groups of individuals living or working in areas that are affected or that could be
affected by the organization’s activities
Note: The local community can range from those living adjacent to the organization’s
operations to those living at a distance.
material topics
M
topics that represent the organization’s most significant impacts on the economy, environment,
and people, including impacts on their human rights
Note: See section 2.2 in GRI 1: Foundation 2021 and section 1 in GRI 3: Material Topics
2021 for more information on ‘material topics’.
operation with significant actual or potential negative impacts on local communities
O
operation, considered alone or in combination with the characteristics of local communities, that
has a higher than average potential of negative impacts, or actual negative impacts, on the
social, economic or environmental well-being of local communities
Note: Examples of negative impacts on local communities can include impacts to local
community health and safety.
severity (of an impact)
S
The severity of an actual or potential negative impact is determined by its scale (i.e., how grave
the impact is), scope (i.e., how widespread the impact is), and irremediable character (how hard
it is to counteract or make good the resulting harm).
Source: Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), OECD Due
Diligence Guidance for Responsible Business Conduct, 2018; modified
United Nations (UN), The Corporate Responsibility to Respect Human Rights: An
Interpretive Guide, 2012; modified
14 GRI 413: Local Communities 2016
Note: See section 1 in GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 for more information on ‘severity’.
supplier
entity upstream from the organization (i.e., in the organization’s supply chain), which provides a
product or service that is used in the development of the organization’s own products or services
Examples: brokers, consultants, contractors, distributors, franchisees, home workers,
independent contractors, licensees, manufacturers, primary producers, sub-
contractors, wholesalers
Note: A supplier can have a direct business relationship with the organization (often
referred to as a first-tier supplier) or an indirect business relationship.
supply chain
range of activities carried out by entities upstream from the organization, which provide products
or services that are used in the development of the organization’s own products or services
sustainable development / sustainability
development that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future
generations to meet their own needs
Source: World Commission on Environment and Development, Our Common Future, 1987
Note: The terms ‘sustainability’ and ‘sustainable development’ are used interchangeably
in the GRI Standards.
value chain
V
range of activities carried out by the organization, and by entities upstream and downstream
from the organization, to bring the organization’s products or services from their conception to
their end use
Note 1: Entities upstream from the organization (e.g., suppliers) provide products or
services that are used in the development of the organization’s own products or
services. Entities downstream from the organization (e.g., distributors, customers)
receive products or services from the organization.
Note 2: The value chain includes the supply chain.
vulnerable group
group of individuals with a specific condition or characteristic (e.g., economic, physical, political,
social) that could experience negative impacts as a result of the organization’s activities more
severely than the general population
Examples: children and youth; elderly persons; ex-combatants; HIV/AIDS-affected households;
human rights defenders; Indigenous Peoples; internally displaced persons;
migrant workers and their families; national or ethnic, religious and linguistic
minorities; persons who might be discriminated against based on their sexual
orientation, gender identity, gender expression, or sex characteristics (e.g., lesbian,
gay, bisexual, transgender, intersex); persons with disabilities; refugees or
returning refugees; women
Note: Vulnerabilities and impacts can differ by gender.
worker
W
person that performs work for the organization
Examples: employees, agency workers, apprentices, contractors, home workers, interns, self-
employed persons, sub-contractors, volunteers, and persons working for
organizations other than the reporting organization, such as for suppliers
Note: In the GRI Standards, in some cases, it is specified whether a particular subset of
workers is required to be used.
Bibliography
15 GRI 413: Local Communities 2016
Bibliography
This section lists authoritative intergovernmental instruments and additional references used in developing this
Standard.
Authoritative instruments:
1. Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), OECD Guidelines for Multinational
Enterprises, 2011.
2. Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), Risk Awareness Tool for Multinational
Enterprises in Weak Governance Zones, 2006.
3. United Nations (UN) Convention, ‘International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights’, 1966.
4. United Nations (UN) Convention, ‘International Covenant on Economic, Social, and Cultural Rights’, 1966.
5. United Nations (UN) Declaration, ‘Declaration on the Right to Development’, 1986.
6. United Nations (UN) Declaration, ‘Universal Declaration of Human Rights’, 1948.
Additional references:
7. International Finance Corporation (IFC), Performance Standards on Environmental and Social Sustainability,
2012.
8. International Finance Corporation (IFC), Stakeholder Engagement: A Good Practice Handbook for Companies
Doing Business in Emerging Markets, 2007.
PO Box 10039
1001 EA Amsterdam
The Netherlands
www.globalreporting.org
