GRI 304: Biodiversity 2016
304
EFFECTIVE DATE: 1 JULY 2018
TOPIC STANDARD
GRI 304: Biodiversity 2016
Topic Standard
Effective Date
This Standard is effective for reports or other materials published on or after 1 July 2018
Responsibility
This Standard is issued by the Global Sustainability Standards Board (GSSB). Any feedback on the GRI Standards
can be submitted to gssbsecretariat@globalreporting.org for the consideration of the GSSB.
Due Process
This Standard was developed in the public interest and in accordance with the requirements of the GSSB Due
Process Protocol. It has been developed using multi-stakeholder expertise, and with regard to authoritative
intergovernmental instruments and widely held expectations of organizations relating to social, environmental, and
economic responsibilities.
Legal Liability
This document, designed to promote sustainability reporting, has been developed by the Global Sustainability
Standards Board (GSSB) through a unique multi-stakeholder consultative process involving representatives from
organizations and report information users from around the world. While the GRI Supervisory Board, Management
Board, and GSSB encourage the use of the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI Standards) and related
Interpretations by all organizations, the preparation and publication of reports based fully or partially on the GRI
Standards and related Interpretations are the full responsibility of those producing them. Neither the GRI Supervisory
Board, Management Board, GSSB, nor Stichting Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) can assume responsibility for any
consequences or damages resulting directly or indirectly from the use of the GRI Standards and related
Interpretations in the preparation of reports, or the use of reports based on the GRI Standards and related
Interpretations.
Copyright and trademark notice
This document is copyright-protected by Stichting Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). The reproduction and distribution
of this document for information and/or use in preparing a sustainability report is permitted without prior permission
from GRI. However, neither this document nor any extract from it may be reproduced, stored, translated, or transferred
in any form or by any means (electronic, mechanical, photocopied, recorded, or otherwise) for any other purpose
without prior written permission from GRI.
Global Reporting Initiative, GRI and logo, GSSB and logo, and GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI
Standards) and logo are trademarks of Stichting Global Reporting Initiative.
© 2025 GRI. All rights reserved.
ISBN 978-90-8866-107-5
3 GRI 304: Biodiversity 2016
Content
Introduction 4
1. Topic management disclosures 7
2. Topic disclosures 8
Disclosure 304-1 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to,
8
protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas
Disclosure 304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products and services on
9
biodiversity
Disclosure 304-3 Habitats protected or restored 10
Disclosure 304-4 IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with
11
habitats in areas affected by operations
Glossary 12
Bibliography 14
4 GRI 304: Biodiversity 2016
Introduction
GRI 304: Biodiversity 2016 contains disclosures for organizations to report information about their biodiversity-related
impacts, and how they manage these impacts.
The Standard is structured as follows:
• Section 1 contains a requirement, which provides information about how the organization manages its
biodiversity-related impacts.
• Section 2 contains four disclosures, which provide information about the organization’s biodiversity-related
impacts.
• The Glossary contains defined terms with a specific meaning when used in the GRI Standards. The terms are
underlined in the text of the GRI Standards and linked to the definitions.
• The Bibliography lists authoritative intergovernmental instruments and additional references used in developing
this Standard.
The rest of the Introduction section provides a background on the topic, an overview of the system of GRI Standards
and further information on using this Standard.
Background on the topic
This Standard addresses the topic of biodiversity.
Protecting biological diversity is important for ensuring the survival of plant and animal species, genetic diversity, and
natural ecosystems. In addition, natural ecosystems provide clean water and air, and contribute to food security and
human health. Biodiversity also contributes directly to local livelihoods, making it essential for achieving poverty
reduction, and thus sustainable development.
These concepts are covered in key instruments of the United Nations: see Bibliography.
System of GRI Standards
This Standard is part of the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI Standards). The GRI Standards enable an
organization to report information about its most significant impacts on the economy, environment, and people,
including impacts on their human rights, and how it manages these impacts.
The GRI Standards are structured as a system of interrelated standards that are organized into three series: GRI
Universal Standards, GRI Sector Standards, and GRI Topic Standards (see Figure 1 in this Standard).
Universal Standards: GRI 1, GRI 2 and GRI 3
GRI 1: Foundation 2021 specifies the requirements that the organization must comply with to report in accordance
with the GRI Standards. The organization begins using the GRI Standards by consulting GRI 1.
GRI 2: General Disclosures 2021 contains disclosures that the organization uses to provide information about its
reporting practices and other organizational details, such as its activities, governance, and policies.
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 provides guidance on how to determine material topics. It also contains disclosures that
the organization uses to report information about its process of determining material topics, its list of material topics,
and how it manages each topic.
Sector Standards
The Sector Standards provide information for organizations about their likely material topics. The organization uses
the Sector Standards that apply to its sectors when determining its material topics and when determining what to
report for each material topic.
Topic Standards
The Topic Standards contain disclosures that the organization uses to report information about its impacts in relation
to particular topics. The organization uses the Topic Standards according to the list of material topics it has
determined using GRI 3.
5 GRI 304: Biodiversity 2016
Figure 1. GRI Standards: Universal, Sector and Topic Standards
GRI Standards
Universal Standards Sector Standards Topic Standards
Requirements and
principles for using the
GRI Standards
Disclosures about the
reporting organization
Disclosures and
guidance about the
organization's material
topics
Apply all three Universal Use the Sector Standards that Select Topic Standards to report
Standards to your reporting apply to your sectors specific information on your
material topics
Using this Standard
This Standard can be used by any organization – regardless of size, type, sector, geographic location, or reporting
experience – to report information about its biodiversity-related impacts.
An organization reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards is required to report the following disclosures if it has
determined biodiversity to be a material topic:
• Disclosure 3-3 in GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 (see clause 1.1 in this Standard);
• Any disclosures from this Topic Standard that are relevant to the organization’s biodiversity-related impacts
(Disclosure 304-1 through Disclosure 304-4).
See Requirements 4 and 5 in GRI 1: Foundation 2021.
Reasons for omission are permitted for these disclosures.
If the organization cannot comply with a disclosure or with a requirement in a disclosure (e.g., because the required
information is confidential or subject to legal prohibitions), the organization is required to specify the disclosure or the
requirement it cannot comply with, and provide a reason for omission together with an explanation in the GRI content
index. See Requirement 6 in GRI 1: Foundation 2021 for more information on reasons for omission.
If the organization cannot report the required information about an item specified in a disclosure because the item
(e.g., committee, policy, practice, process) does not exist, it can comply with the requirement by reporting this to be the
case. The organization can explain the reasons for not having this item, or describe any plans to develop it. The
disclosure does not require the organization to implement the item (e.g., developing a policy), but to report that the
item does not exist.
If the organization intends to publish a standalone sustainability report, it does not need to repeat information that it
has already reported publicly elsewhere, such as on web pages or in its annual report. In such a case, the
organization can report a required disclosure by providing a reference in the GRI content index as to where this
information can be found (e.g., by providing a link to the web page or citing the page in the annual report where the
information has been published).
6 GRI 304: Biodiversity 2016
Requirements, guidance and defined terms
The following apply throughout this Standard:
Requirements are presented in bold font and indicated by the word 'shall'. An organization must comply with
requirements to report in accordance with the GRI Standards.
Requirements may be accompanied by guidance.
Guidance includes background information, explanations, and examples to help the organization better understand
the requirements. The organization is not required to comply with guidance.
The Standards may also include recommendations. These are cases where a particular course of action is
encouraged but not required.
The word ‘should’ indicates a recommendation, and the word ‘can’ indicates a possibility or option.
Defined terms are underlined in the text of the GRI Standards and linked to their definitions in the Glossary. The
organization is required to apply the definitions in the Glossary.
7 GRI 304: Biodiversity 2016
1. Topic management disclosures
An organization reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards is required to report how it manages each of its
material topics.
An organization that has determined biodiversity to be a material topic is required to report how it manages the topic
using Disclosure 3-3 in GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 (see clause 1.1 in this section).
This section is therefore designed to supplement – and not replace – Disclosure 3-3 in GRI 3.
1.1 The reporting organization shall report how it manages biodiversity using Disclosure
REQUIREMENTS
3-3 in GRI 3: Material Topics 2021.
The reporting organization can also describe its strategy for achieving its policy on biodiversity
GUIDANCE
management. A biodiversity strategy can contain a combination of elements related to the
prevention, management, and remediation of damage to natural habitats resulting from the
organization’s activities. An example of this is the integration of biodiversity considerations into
analytical tools, such as environmental site impact assessments.
8 GRI 304: Biodiversity 2016
2. Topic disclosures
Disclosure 304-1 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or
adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value
outside protected areas
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
REQUIREMENTS
a. For each operational site owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas
and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas, the following information:
i. Geographic location;
ii. Subsurface and underground land that may be owned, leased, or managed by the
organization;
iii. Position in relation to the protected area (in the area, adjacent to, or containing
portions of the protected area) or the high biodiversity value area outside
protected areas;
iv. Type of operation (office, manufacturing or production, or extractive);
v. Size of operational site in km2 (or another unit, if appropriate);
vi. Biodiversity value characterized by the attribute of the protected area or area of
high biodiversity value outside the protected area (terrestrial, freshwater, or
maritime ecosystem);
vii. Biodiversity value characterized by listing of protected status (such as IUCN
Protected Area Management Categories, Ramsar Convention, national legislation).
2.1 When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 304-1, the reporting organization
RECOMMENDATIONS
should include information about sites for which future operations have been formally
announced.
Background
GUIDANCE
Monitoring which activities are taking place in both protected areas and areas of high biodiversity
value outside protected areas makes it possible for the organization to reduce the risks of
impacts. It also makes it possible for the organization to manage impacts on biodiversity or to
avoid mismanagement.
9 GRI 304: Biodiversity 2016
Disclosure 304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products and
services on biodiversity
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
REQUIREMENTS
a. Nature of significant direct and indirect impacts on biodiversity with reference to one or
more of the following:
i. Construction or use of manufacturing plants, mines, and transport infrastructure;
ii. Pollution (introduction of substances that do not naturally occur in the habitat from
point and non-point sources);
iii. Introduction of invasive species, pests, and pathogens;
iv. Reduction of species;
v. Habitat conversion;
vi. Changes in ecological processes outside the natural range of variation (such as
salinity or changes in groundwater level).
b. Significant direct and indirect positive and negative impacts with reference to the
following:
i. Species affected;
ii. Extent of areas impacted;
iii. Duration of impacts;
iv. Reversibility or irreversibility of the impacts.
Guidance for Disclosure 304-2
GUIDANCE
Indirect impacts on biodiversity can include impacts in the supply chain.
Areas of impact are not limited to areas that are formally protected and include consideration of
impacts on buffer zones, as well as formally designated areas of special importance or
sensitivity.
Background
This disclosure provides the background for understanding (and developing) an organization’s
strategy to mitigate significant direct and indirect impacts on biodiversity. By presenting
structured and qualitative information, the disclosure enables comparison of the relative size,
scale, and nature of impacts over time and across organizations.
10 GRI 304: Biodiversity 2016
Disclosure 304-3 Habitats protected or restored
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
REQUIREMENTS
a. Size and location of all habitat areas protected or restored, and whether the success of
the restoration measure was or is approved by independent external professionals.
b. Whether partnerships exist with third parties to protect or restore habitat areas distinct
from where the organization has overseen and implemented restoration or protection
measures.
c. Status of each area based on its condition at the close of the reporting period.
d. Standards, methodologies, and assumptions used.
2.2 When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 304-3, the reporting organization
RECOMMENDATIONS
should align the information presented in this disclosure with regulatory or license
requirements for the protection or restoration of habitats, if applicable.
Guidance for Disclosure 304-3
GUIDANCE
This disclosure addresses the extent of an organization’s prevention and remediation activities
with respect to its impacts on biodiversity. This disclosure refers to areas where remediation
has been completed or where the area is actively protected. Areas where operations are still
active can be counted if they conform to the definitions of ‘area restored’ or ‘area protected’.
11 GRI 304: Biodiversity 2016
Disclosure 304-4 IUCN Red List species and national conservation
list species with habitats in areas affected by operations
The reporting organization shall report the following information:
REQUIREMENTS
a. Total number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with
habitats in areas affected by the operations of the organization, by level of extinction
risk:
i. Critically endangered
ii. Endangered
iii. Vulnerable
iv. Near threatened
v. Least concern
2.3 When compiling the information specified in Disclosure 304-4, the reporting organization
RECOMMENDATIONS
should compare the information in the IUCN Red List and national conservation lists with
the species outlined in planning documentation and monitoring records to ensure
consistency.
Background
GUIDANCE
This disclosure helps an organization to identify where its activities pose a threat to endangered
plant and animal species. By identifying these threats, the organization can initiate appropriate
steps to avoid harm and to prevent the extinction of species. The International Union for
Conservation of Nature (IUCN) ‘Red List of Threatened Species’ (an inventory of the global
conservation status of plant and animal species) and national conservation lists serve as
authorities on the sensitivity of habitat in areas affected by operations, and on the relative
importance of these habitats from a management perspective.
See reference [8] in the Bibliography.
12 GRI 304: Biodiversity 2016
Glossary
This glossary provides definitions for terms used in this Standard. The organization is required to apply these
definitions when using the GRI Standards.
The definitions included in this glossary may contain terms that are further defined in the complete GRI Standards
Glossary. All defined terms are underlined. If a term is not defined in this glossary or in the complete GRI Standards
Glossary, definitions that are commonly used and understood apply.
area of high biodiversity value
A
area not subject to legal protection, but recognized for important biodiversity features by a
number of governmental and non-governmental organizations
Note 1: Areas of high biodiversity value include habitats that are a priority for conservation,
which are often defined in National Biodiversity Strategies and Action Plans
prepared under the United Nations (UN) Convention, ‘Convention on Biological
Diversity’, 1992.
Note 2: Several international conservation organizations have identified particular areas of
high biodiversity value.
area protected
area that is protected from any harm during operational activities, and where the environment
remains in its original state with a healthy and functioning ecosystem
area restored
area that was used during or affected by operational activities, and where remediation
measures have either restored the environment to its original state, or to a state where it has a
healthy and functioning ecosystem
human rights
H
rights inherent to all human beings, which include, at a minimum, the rights set out in the United
Nations (UN) International Bill of Human Rights and the principles concerning fundamental
rights set out in the International Labour Organization (ILO) Declaration on Fundamental
Principles and Rights at Work
Source: United Nations (UN), Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights:
Implementing the United Nations “Protect, Respect and Remedy” Framework, 2011;
modified
Note: See Guidance to 2-23-b-i in GRI 2: General Disclosures 2021 for more information
on ‘human rights’.
impact
I
effect the organization has or could have on the economy, environment, and people, including on
their human rights, which in turn can indicate its contribution (negative or positive) to sustainable
development
Note 1: Impacts can be actual or potential, negative or positive, short-term or long-term,
intended or unintended, and reversible or irreversible.
Note 2: See section 2.1 in GRI 1: Foundation 2021 for more information on ‘impact’.
material topics
M
topics that represent the organization’s most significant impacts on the economy, environment,
and people, including impacts on their human rights
Note: See section 2.2 in GRI 1: Foundation 2021 and section 1 in GRI 3: Material Topics
2021 for more information on ‘material topics’.
protected area
P
geographic area that is designated, regulated, or managed to achieve specific conservation
objectives
13 GRI 304: Biodiversity 2016
significant impact on biodiversity
S
impact that can adversely affect the integrity of a geographic area or region, either directly or
indirectly, by substantially changing its ecological features, structures, and functions across its
whole area, and over the long term, so that habitat, its population levels, and the particular
species that make the habitat important cannot be sustained
Note 1: On a species level, a significant impact causes a population decline or change in
distribution so that natural recruitment (reproduction or immigration from unaffected
areas) cannot return to former levels within a limited number of generations.
Note 2: A significant impact can also affect subsistence or commercial resource use to the
degree that the well-being of users is affected over the long term.
sustainable development / sustainability
development that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future
generations to meet their own needs
Source: World Commission on Environment and Development, Our Common Future, 1987
Note: The terms ‘sustainability’ and ‘sustainable development’ are used interchangeably
in the GRI Standards.
Bibliography
14 GRI 304: Biodiversity 2016
Bibliography
This section lists authoritative intergovernmental instruments and additional references used in developing this
Standard.
Authoritative instruments:
1. Ramsar Convention, ‘The Convention on Wetlands of International Importance especially as Waterfowl Habitat’,
1994.
2. United Nations (UN) Convention, ‘Convention on Biological Diversity’, 1992.
3. United Nations (UN) Convention, ‘Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Flora and
Fauna (CITES)’, 1979.
4. United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO), Biosphere Reserves,
http://www.unesco.org/new/en/natural-sciences/environment/ecological-sciences/biosphere-reserves/,
accessed on 1 September 2016.
5. United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO), World Heritage Sites List,
http://whc.unesco.org/en/list, accessed on 1 September 2016.
Additional references:
6. BirdLife International, Important Bird and Biodiversity Areas, http://www.birdlife.org/datazone/site, accessed on 1
September 2016.
7. International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN), Guidelines for Applying Protected Area Management
Categories, 2008.
8. International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN), Red List of Threatened Species,
http://www.iucnredlist.org/, accessed on 1 September 2016.
PO Box 10039
1001 EA Amsterdam
The Netherlands
www.globalreporting.org
